http://www.thehindu.com/sport/football/Guardiola-can-be-a-big-influence-on-the-EPL/article14019569.ece

Thailand was your first coaching stint with an Asian country. What will it take for an Asian nation to make the breakthrough at the world level?I enjoyed the job in Thailand. Players were very respectful, worked hard. They wanted to be professional, but their lifestyle, the way they eat and train, did not help. Thais love their spicy food. When I spoke to them about upper body strength they need to withstand the physical challenge, the players would do the routines when attached to the national squad, but when they went back to the clubs would skip them. They thought if they could just run, they were fit. In football, you have got to be strong in upper body conditioning. You have got to understand that and improve, if you want to take on the world’s best. South Korea and Japan have shown that it can be done, playing against some of the best sides in World Cups. It happened because their coaches went around the world, studied football and came back to implement what they saw and learnt, telling their players about power and pace. This is what India and some of the other countries need to focus on.Talking about strength and power, Germany changed after Jurgen Klinsmann took over during the 2006 World Cup, displaying lethal pace and finishing as seen in the 2014 World Cup in Brazil, very different to the physical and power game they were known for. Reasons for the change…Germany have always been a powerful team, as evident from World Cup history. When they won the U-21 title (UEFA U-21 Championship in 2009), a group of players came through. Seven of them played at Bayern Munich together. It was very similar at Manchester United when David Beckhan, Paul Scholes, Nicky Butt, Gary Neville played at the same time. It always helps if a group comes through as youngsters. Germany have that advantage at the moment. Six years ago, it was Spain with a mix of young Real Madrid and Barcelona players. Look at how Roy Hodgson selected the England squad for the European Championships (UEFA Euro 2016 in France). The team is skilful, shows the speed and stamina and I feel England is going to do quite well.News reports indicate a move by Spanish coach Pep Guardiola from Bayern Munich to an EPL club. Will he influence English football the way he changed the outlook at Barcelona before and now in the Bundesliga?He has said he would like to manage in England. Hopefully that happens, because the best coaches, best players should be in the Premier League. Time will tell which team he will coach. Guardiola in EPL will be good. He was a great player, was a great coach at Barcelona and at Bayern and can be a big influence on the EPL as well.Guardiola’s future move to the EPL will put current coaches under the spotlight. Louis Van Gaal at Manchester United for instance. Do you feel he deserves more time to build a team?You have to give the manager the best he asks for. When a new person comes in with new ideas, you have to implement them and play the way the manager wants to. Players need to enjoy their football, not just for fans but for themselves. Fans have to be little more patient with the manager, in giving him the time to get the team to play his way. Louis Van Gaal wants to build a solid base for his team; he has actually achieved that with the midfielders. Manchester United has midfielders who play the ball a lot more; their work will strengthen the defence. Now, we need to tell the midfielders to more forward and score more goals, so that the team does not always have to rely on Wayne Rooney or Anthony Martial to get the goals. If we can get there, there is a great season ahead for Manchester United.Highly successful coaches are not usually great captains or great players, and vice-versa. Your thoughts on what makes for an effective club coach...It depends on the opportunity you get. When I look back at Graeme Souness and Kenny Dalglish, they went on to become highly successful managers with Liverpool and Blackburn Rovers at a time when Blackburn was one of the first clubs then to have a big financial backing. I was quite successful at Middlesbrough, with a lesser budget than Manchester United, Liverpool and Arsenal. The wage bill decides where the club will be placed on the league table. Smaller clubs cannot match the wages paid by bigger sides; these teams need to perform with average players, compared to a Chelsea or Manchester City.India will be hosting the FIFA U-17 World Cup next year, pitting 15 and 16-year-olds against the world’s best in their age-group. Can the U-17 preparations and performance be the starting point for future Indian development?Definitely. It will show the young Indians how far they need to go to be able to compete against the world’s best. It is a great thing to get the world’s best U-17 footballers here. The publicity for football will hopefully interest the five-year-olds and six-year-olds to play the sport.