http://www.thehindu.com/sport/cricket/The-cricket-fan-will-be-the-happiest%E2%80%99/article13980752.ece

The Hindu understands that the Justice Lodha Committee will, among other things, empower the players. The head of the committee, Justice Rajendra Mal Lodha, a former Chief Justice of India, spoke to this newspaper on Sunday evening.Excerpts:Monday is a D-Day for Indian cricket…(Laughs) I am glad that the committee has completed the monumental task assigned to it by the highest court of the country. This was an important assignment. But, I would like to thank all those who gave us insightful information to complete this report.You have served as the Chief Justice of India. How big was this responsibility?This is a task which concerns 1.28 billion people. It concerns the passion of every cricket fan. It’s very, very important. I would call it a landmark task. It remains to be seen how people view it.Indian cricket was in need of reform. Are you glad you have played a part in ensuring this?As judges, we deal with reforms all the time — electoral reforms, legal reforms and the like. These are cricket reforms. This was something we weren’t used to. The subject was totally different and the exercise was huge and monumental. But, I hope we have addressed the concerns of 1.28 billion people. That’s what kept us going.There is a feeling that the BCCI has been unfairly targeted…(interrupts) The court has given us this task. It’s not like we approached the court and asked for the job (laughs).Will you do Indian sport a favour and conduct a similar review into the way the Olympic disciplines are run in this country?That’s a matter of conjecture. How can I comment on that?But what if the Supreme Court requests you to…I can’t say anything. Let’s see.Who do you think will be the happiest after reading the committee’s report? Will it be the cricketer?I think it will be the cricket fan.What will…That’s enough for now. Just wait for another day. You will get to know everything (laughs).