http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/1-killed-miraculous-escape-for-36-passengers-as-bus-plunges-into-river/article14025912.ece

A 47-year-old man died and 36 passengers had a narrow escape after a Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) bus plunged into the Shimsha river on the Bengaluru-Mysuru highway near Maddur on Thursday.The deceased was identified as H.M. Ramakrishna, a farmer of Hebberalu village, in Mandya district. The injured were rushed to hospitals in Mandya, Maddur and Bengaluru. All are said to be out of danger.The bus was carrying 37 passengers from Bengaluru to Hassan when it fell off the Kolli bridge, at around 2.30 p.m. near Hotel Adigas, around 5 km from Maddur.Down 25 feetThe bus went over the footpath, crashed through the retaining wall of the bridge and hurtled 25 feet down into the river, some passengers told the police. The water flow was not strong, mitigating the magnitude of the tragedy.Another factor that saved many lives was quick action by local people. Employees and customers of local hotels rushed to help in the rescue. Several passengers smashed window panes and helped others out through the windows. Srinivas, one among those who rushed to the rescue, said: “Initially, I thought the boiler at my hotel exploded. However, within seconds I knew it was an accident.”The police and the Fire and Emergency Services Department from nearby stations were sent to the spot.The reason for the accident is still to be ascertained. According to Balamurugan, who was sitting behind the drivers’ seat, the driver was drinking water from a bottle when the bus went over the footpath and plunged into the river. However, Virupaksha, the driver, said one of the front tyres burst while the bus was crossing the bridge, and this caused the accident. However, the KSRTC officials contradicted this claim.The Maddur police said that the tyres were flattened. The police detained Mr. Virupaksha and conductor, Govinda, for questioning.There was a traffic jam on the highway for awhile as a large crowd gathered to watch the rescue operation. The other section of the highway was made into a two-way lane to clear the traffic.Technical glitchesHassan Staff Correspondent reports:The bus belongs to Ramanathapura depot in Arakalgud taluk. According to KSRTC officials, the bus had covered 6.95 lakh km.Residents of Ramanathapura and nearby villages have often complained to higher authorities about the quality of buses in the depot. In the past, several buses of the depot have stopped mid-way due to technical glitches.PAST INCIDENTS AT THE SHIMSHAJune 8, 2010: 2 persons died, 3 injured when their car fell into the river after hitting the bridge’s parapetAugust 3, 2014: 3 youngsters died when their vehicle plunged into the river at Maddur