http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/1100-wrestlers-to-fight-it-out-for-top-honours/article13994989.ece

As many 1,100 wrestlers from about 84 universities will vie for the coveted honours at the five-day All-India Inter-University Wrestling Championships for men and women, which begins here on January 18. Among the participants, 750 are men and 350 women.About 38 universities from the West Zone, 21 from North Zone and 14, including nine universities from Karnataka, from the South Zone will be participating. The number of universities from East Zone is 11.The wrestling competitors will be accompanied by 150 men and 50 women managers and coaches. Besides freestyle sections, the event will host for the first time Greco-Roman style, which will restricted for men.Over 60 invited technical officials from Karnataka and other States will supervise the wrestling bouts.The championship is hosted by University of Mysore as part its centenary celebrations. Association of Indian Universities (AIU) gave an opportunity to the century-old university to host the event to mark its centennial, said Vice-Chancellor K.S. Rangappa.University Gymnasium Hall, and Yuvaraja’s College Indoor and Maharaja’s College Indoor Halls will host the championships, which will be inaugurated at the Sports Pavilion by Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar, the scion of the Mysuru royal family.Prof. Rangappa announced the details of the championships along with the authorities from the university’s Department of Physical Education here Monday.The competing wrestlers will be divided into eight categories on the basis of their body weight in each section. Competitions in different sections and categories will be held on different days at different venues. In each body weight category, there will be four prizes. As part of its centennial, the university is presenting medals and mementoes to winners and the AIU certificates, a release said.L. Manjappa, Sports Authority of India’s retired wrestling coach, has come forward to institute a rolling trophy of team championship, and the same will be presented to Greco-Roman style wrestling champions.During the inaugural event, R.S. Rangaiah, president, Karnataka State Wrestling Association, and Ramya, inter-university bronze medal winner in wrestling in 2010, will be felicitated.