http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/11-children-rescued-from-bangle-making-unit/article13977678.ece

Eleven children, who were apparently working in bangle-making unit in Bhavaninagar of old city, were rescued by the police following a raid on the premises on Saturday.Acting on a tip off, the police raided a house at Salam Chowk area in Amannagar under Bhavaninagar police station area and found the children, aged between 12 years and 14 years, engaged in bangle-making. “The employer, Shamsheer, hails from Bihar and brought the children to the city in November. On information, we raided the house and rescued the children,” DCP (South) V. Satyanarayana said. All the children were housed in a small room and were not allowed to venture out. “Shamsheer was alert following a recent police crackdown in the area. But, we managed to get the information,” the official said.The employer paid between Rs. 2,500 and Rs. 3,000 a month to the parents of the children and transferred the money through banks. The police are investigating if Shamsheer was earlier caught for similar offence. Officials from the Women and Child Welfare Department made arrangements to house them at a children’s home in Vanasthalipuram.Vehicle checkingMeanwhile, the south zone police organised vehicle checking and frisking operation across the old city in view of the terror attack in Punjab and ensuing GHMC elections. Around 20 police teams conducted the operation at various junctions and thoroughfares for around an hour. The police seized 16 vehicles, as the owners failed to show support documents. A few suspects were also detained for questioning. Three kg of silver was also seized from a person.“Public need not panic over vehicle checking and frisking operations. It is being done to instil a sense of security and safety and at the same time put fear in the minds of criminals,” DCP (South) V. Satyanarayana said, adding that in the coming days more such operations would be conducted. According to the sources, the police planned the operation to nab those persons, who were carrying huge cash without proper support documents.Car driver tries to escapeafter hitting manNalgonda Staff Reporter adds: A man attempted to flee after hitting a 70-year-old pedestrian, while the latter lie dead on his car.The accused, Raheem Khan, and his friend Shabad Khan, were proceeding towards Vijayawada from Hyderabad, when they hit Komirelly Venkat Reddy, native of Narketpally on NH-65 bypass road. Venkat Reddy sustained multiple injuries and died on the spot. In a bid to escape from the scene, Raheem Khan drove the car a few km away carrying the body on his car. The locals alleged that the duo attempted to dump the body on the roadside near Kattangur,but the accused told the police that he was taking the victim to a hospital. When asked why he did not shift the body inside the car, he had no answer.