http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Madurai/14000-babies-delivered-in-GRH-last-year/article14020189.ece

Of the about 14,000 babies delivered at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) here last year, infant and maternal deaths were negligible, said doctors from its Obstetrics and Gynaecology department.During a conference on public welfare organised as part of the hospital’s platinum jubilee celebrations on Sunday, the doctors said that the infant mortality rate (IMR) and maternal mortality rate (MMR) came down during 2015, though a considerable number of cases were referred to the hospital at the last moment. The importance of having a free public healthcare system was reiterated by the speakers.Several patients from poor families in rural areas, who underwent critical surgeries at the hospital recently, shared their experiences.A. Surya (13), son of a labourer from Aviyur in Virudhunagar district, underwent an open heart surgery to fix a hole in his heart. His parents said that though the problem, a congenital disability, was identified soon after Surya’s birth, they were hesitating to undergo the surgery, fearing the cost. They said that during a free medical camp, doctors identified that Surya’s condition had worsened and suggested that he be taken to GRH. After undergoing some tests, Surya was kept under observation for a few months. The surgery was performed in the first week of January. “I was at the hospital for more than a month and became friends with many doctors,” said Surya.K. Deivanai (24), mother of two, from Devakottai, who also underwent an open heart surgery for valve replacement, shared her experience. Though her problem was identified few years ago, she said that her condition worsened recently. “I was told at a private hospital in Devakottai that the surgery will cost Rs. 6 lakh even if performed under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme (CMCHIS),” she said. The woman said that she came hesitantly to GRH as there was a general perception that the service and hygiene would not be good but was surprised with the care provided at the hospital.