http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/tamil-nadu/25-year-old-dies-after-fall-from-second-floor/article13977604.ece

In a tragic accident, a 25-year-old youth fell to his death from the second floor of a building in Nallurhalli in the wee hours of Friday.The Whitefield police, under whose jurisdiction Nallurhalli falls, identified the victim as Shiva Krishna from Khammam in Telangana.He was working at Mahadevapura as a lab technician in a pharmaceutical company.The victim had partied with six friends to bring in the New Year before retiring to his apartment.Around 2 a.m., while his friends were asleep, Krishna stepped out of the apartment to talk to family and friends on his mobile phone.Based on statements from his friends, the police said suspect that Shiva lost his balance and toppled over the corridor railing.An officer said, “There were no witnesses. We will question his friends and also go through call records to ascertain if it was an accident or he was a victim of foul play.”Incidentally, Krishna had announced his engagement three months ago.A neighbour raised the alarm on Friday morning when he saw Shiva lying near the gate in a pool of blood.His body was shifted to a private hospital where he was declared dead on arrival.Man stabbed to deathA 27-year-old cable TV operator was stabbed to death by three friends, who are in the same business, during a drunken brawl at a New Year party in Subramanyapura on Thursday night.The deceased, Santosh, (27), was from Sakleshpura. Three persons — Manoj, Deepak and Pawan — have been arrested on the charge of murder. They are also from Sakleshpura.A police officer said, “We are investigating the reason for the attack.”353 motorists booked for drunk drivingIn the run-up to the New Year, the traffic police registered 353 cases against motorists and seized their vehicles for driving under the influence of alcohol. This was part of a special drive between Thursday night and Friday morning. “Every New Year, the traffic police used to take lenient view of drunk driving. But this time, we seized vehicles and booked cases to minimise accidents,” said M.A. Saleem, Additional Commissioner of Police (traffic).The police also succeeded in preventing motorists from racing at night.24-year-old falls off railingA 24-year-old sustained injuries after falling from a railing on M.G. Road on Thursday night.The victim, Vijay Kumar, had come to M.G. Road with his friends. He was dancing with them near Cauvery Junction. He climbed a railing but lost his balance.His friends, with help from the police, rushed him to Bowring hospital.Vehicles vandalisedThree cars and six motorcycles parked outside houses in Ashwath Nagar were damaged by some vandals on Thursday night.According to the residents, the vandals were inebriated revellers who smashed windows and windshields, and damaged bikes.The HAL police are checking CCTV footage from in and around the area to identify the culprits.The police suspect that Shiva lost his balance and toppled over the corridor railing