http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/26-CCTV-cameras-installed-in-Nazarbad-police-station-limits/article14025903.ece

Parts of areas falling under Nazarbad police station limits in the city will henceforth be monitored more closely than ever before. No, the police station has not been sanctioned additional personnel. But, under a unique technology initiative with the residents of the locality, the police station has installed 26 CCTV cameras in vantage locations across its limits.The day and night vision cameras, which rotate 180 degrees, will be beaming visuals 24 hours a day directly onto the monitors put up in the office of Nazarbad police station Inspector R. Jagadish, which also serves as the control room.Titled ‘Operation Eagle,’ the tech-initiative operates through Wi-Fi and will help mount an eagle-eyed vigil of the sprawling limits of the police station that spreads across Nazarbad, Siddhartha Layout and adjoining localities. City Police Commissioner B. Dayananda said the system, though can detect traffic violations, is mainly aimed at deterring people from committing crimes like chain-snatching and eve-teasing.The project, which is a brainchild of Mr. Jagadish, is a police-public initiative.“We have installed the cameras in houses of the citizens, who have willingly offered their Wi-Fi, power connection and UPS for transmitting the visuals to the control room,” Mr. Jagadish told The Hindu.Unlike the conventional system of transmitting video footage through cables, ‘Operation Eagle’ uses the Wi-Fi. The police station, housing the control room, is also Wi-Fi enabled, he added.The project is entirely sponsored by the citizens through Adeshwar Vatika, a local organisation.“If we had used cables to transmit the video footage, the project would have cost us Rs. 50 lakh. But, through this technology, we spent just Rs. 2.5 lakh ,” Mr. Jagadish said.The areas covered by the project are Venkatalingaiah Colony, Vinaya Marg, Milk Diary junction on M. M. Hills road, Buddha Marg, Nazarbad circle and others.The project, which became operational on January 26, was described by Mr. Dayananda as a ‘good model,’ which can be replicated in other police stations.