http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/2K-Run-held-to-promote-Flamingo-Festival/article13985894.ece

People’s representatives, officials and denizens took part enthusiastically in the 2K Run which was held from the VRC Grounds to Trunk Road here on Wednesday as part of the campaign for making the Flamingo Festival a grand success.This is part of the government’s initiatives to promote the bird festival as popular tourist attraction in the Pulicat lake surroundings and in the Nellore district.Minister for Municipal Administration P. Narayana, who flagged off the run and also took part in it, said that many activities were being taken up to fully harness the tourist potential in southern areas.He asserted that the infrastructure relating to tourism would also be given a new fillip.Addressing the participants in the 2K Run, Mr. Narayana said that Pulicat had rich potential of attracting foreign tourists as well by virtue of it being the home for hundreds of migratory birds like flamingos, pelicans and so on.“Nearly 165 types of migratory birds make Pulicat their winter stay for the sake of the food available here,” he added. Mr. Narayana said that all over the world, France has come to be known as the best tourist destination with tourists thronging there every year in large numbers to attend different festivals. In India, Tamil Nadu stands out as the most attractive tourist destination. Andhra Pradesh would also be promoted in the same manner, he said.District Collector M. Janaki said tourists were attending the Flamingo Festival every year from other States as well. Necessary arrangements were being made to make the bird festival a grand success with the active cooperation of all the concerned.Ms. Janaki said that after Gujarat, it is Pulicat lake and Nelapattu sanctuaries that were attracting the most number of migratory birds during winters. These birds fly nearly 6,000 km to reach Pulicat.Minister Narayana says activities are being taken up to harness tourist potential in Nellore district