http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/3-killed-in-LPG-tanker-accident/article14004156.ece

Three persons, including a woman, were killed when an LPG-filled tanker travelling from Visakhapatnam to Bhubaneswar met with an accident and overturned on NH-16 at College Square of Chatrapur in Odisha on Sunday afternoon.There was leakage of LPG from the damaged tanker increasing danger of fire accidents in the area. Police and administration initiated measures to prevent fire accidents. Fire officials sprinkled water on the overturned tanker as well as the gas coming out of it to keep the temperature low. Vehicular traffic on the national highway has been stopped and an area in one km radius around the spot is being monitored. Power connection to this region has been stopped. Through public address system, the police personnel are urging people to avoid using fire nearby.Area residents are also being dissuaded from using generators during the power cut and refrain from lighting diyas and incense sticks as part of religious ritual during evening, said Inspector General of Police southern range Amitabh Thakur.Mr Thakur along with Ganjam Superintendent of Police Narasingh Bhol and Collector Prem Chand Choudhary are at the spot to monitor the situation.Area residents are panicked as they are also not able to cook dinner.Speaking to The Hindu , the IGP said a technical team of the public sector petroleum company, whose LPG was being transported, reached the spot of accident at around 5.45 p.m. Another technical team from Visakhapatnam was to reach Chatrapur later in the evening along with equipment to stop the leakage. “The LPG in the damaged tanker would be transferred to another tanker by these technical teams,” said Mr Thakur.According to Ganjam SP, this would take around three hours and is expected to be completed by midnight.According to eyewitnesses, the accident occurred at around 12.15 p.m. The driver lost control over the tanker while trying to save a scooter rider. The tanker then overturned and crushed a roadside kiosk. According to police sources, three persons were suspected to be crushed under it. Only one body has been recovered.