http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/3-red-sanders-smugglers-arrested-47-logs-seized/article14022808.ece

Three woodcutters engaged in felling the precious red sanders trees were taken into custody by the forest and police sleuths in two different raids in Seshachalam forest in Chittoor District of Andhra Pradesh on Tuesday night.As part of the ongoing drive to flush out the woodcutters from the Seshachalam forest, the police team, assisted by the Red Sanders Anti Smuggling Task Force (RSASTF), conducted a joint operation near Srivarimettu in the late hours of Tuesday and early hours of Wednesday.When the team led by Reserve Sub-Inspector Bhaskar reached Sachinodibanda, they heard the sound of tree-felling using axes and sickles. Stones rained on them when the cops demanded the people on the other side to surrender. Following this encounter they had to fire a round in the air to scare them away.While most of the perpetrators fled, the sleuths nabbed two persons hailing from Tamil Nadu and seized 18 red sander logs. The arrested were identified as N. Lakshman (37), son of Late Naduthambi of Aramandi Panchayat in Kallakurichi taluk of Villupuram district and R. Sethu (40), son of Late Raja of Pennagaram, Krishnapuram Panchayat in Dharmapuri district.Upon receiving the information, Deputy Inspector-General of Police M. Kantha Rao rushed to the spot. In view of the gravity of the case, as one round had been fired, the taskforce sleuths handed over the logs and the accused to the Chandragiri Police Station, where the Circle Inspector V. Sivaprasad is investigating the case.Interestingly, the incident happened close to the place where 20 persons were shot dead in an alleged encounter April last.The woodcutters were learnt to have changed tack and moved into these parts of Seshachalam, thanks to the increased surveillance in the adjoining Kadapa District, where two bus loads of woodcutters from Tamil Nadu were nabbed recently.More than 100 persons are still believed to be lurking in the forest. With the last year’s ill-fated event casting a shadow on the operations of the task force, the officials took a team of mediapersons to the spot, apparently as an image makeover exercise.To ensure better transparency, the scribes were also made to speak directly with the accused.In a related event, a team of forest officials stumbled upon woodcutters at Rayikachina Kanuma near Talakona, where a band of 20 persons were seen carrying the red sander logs. According to the Divisional Forest Officer (Tirupati Wildlife Management Circle) T.V. Subba Reddy, the guards could lay their hands on only unknown offender and 29 logs, while the remaining fled the scene.