http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/387000-farmers-to-come-under-soil-health-mission/article13998581.ece

The Agriculture Department has taken up the initiative of issuing soil health cards to over 3,87,000 farmers in the district under the Soil Health Mission. The department has shifted the soil testing laboratory from Nanjangud to the office of the Deputy Director of Agriculture in Nazarabad here, which started functioning from Monday last. Joint Director of Agriculture M. Mahanteshappa told The Hindu that over 83,000 soil samples would be collected as part of the mission.After collecting the soil samples, each of the 3, 87,000 farmers in the district would be given soil health cards, he said. The Agriculture Department has formed grids of 10 hectares each in dry land and 2.5 hectares each in irrigated land. Soil samples would be collected from each grid and after testing, farmers will be advised on the crop pattern, fertilisers and micro-nutrients to be used in the grid.The department has already recruited about 140 farm facilitators on daily basis and has deputed a large contingent of staff to carry out the Soil Health Mission in the district. It has also availed the service of technical experts. Officers and employees involved in the mission have already been trained, he said and added that farmers are being enlightened about the soil health cards. Mr. Mahanteshappa said that soil testing and recommendations would prevent farmers from using chemical fertilisers indiscriminately and help them to safeguard the fertility of the soil. Soil health cards will be valid for three years and after three years, the department would again conduct the soil testing exercise, he added.The soil testing laboratory would function in two shifts (from 7 a.m. to 2 p.m. and 2 p.m. to 10 p.m.), he said.The State government has purchased specially designed Tablets and distributed to all the districts. Each Raitha Samparka Kendra will be given two Tablets and those assigned with the job of conducting soil tests can use it to locate the spot from where a particular soil sample is collected, among others. The cost of each Tablet is Rs. 9,500.