http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/30-folk-artistes-honoured-with-Janapada-Academy-awards/article13994838.ece

Minister of State for Kannada and Culture Umashree said that the State government is committed to protecting the interests of artistes and extend all required financial help, including pension to those in distress.Speaking at a glittering function to present Karnataka Janapada Academy Awards to 30 eminent artistes from different parts of the State here on Sunday night, Ms. Umashree said that the State government had cleared more than 7,500 applications from artistes seeking monthly pension.These applications had been pending for the more than a decade.Charging the previous BJP government with not clearing a single application from artistes seeking monthly pension, Ms. Umashree said that the State government was being considerate and sensitive to the needs of artistes.She said that the State government has increased allocation to the Janapada Academy from Rs. 60 lakh per annum to Rs. 1 crore.She said that the academy has been allowed to provide artistes instruments and also organise training for women artistes.For the first time, monthly pension to 1,000 artistes was being paid directly through RTGS facility to their accounts.Ms. Umashree said that the decision to set up Rangayana units in Kalaburagi, Dharwad and Shivamogga, apart from Mysuru, was to provide a platform for artistes to blossom. It was also meant to take up training programmes for budding artistes.The former Union Minister and Leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha M. Mallikarjun Kharge, who presented the awards to the artistes for 2015, was all praise for the untiring work of Ms. Umashree who, he said, had made the Kannada and Culture Department pro-active.“It is heartening to note that artistes from rural areas who had contributed to the continuity of dying folk arts were recognised and honoured by the academy,” he said.He said that more was required to be done for bringing the contribution and achievements of folk artistes to the limelight. Referring to the controversy over the appointment of the FTII Chairman at Pune, Mr. Kharge said that the Congress-led State government had taken care to appoint only those deserving as chairmen of the 14 academies under the Kannada and Culture Department.