http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/news/45-State-approvals-for-industry-will-go-online/article13989371.ece

From January 26, around 45 permissions needed to set up industries in Maharashtra will go online under the Right to Service (RTS) Act.Further strengthening the State government’s policy of ensuring ease of doing business in Maharashtra, industries can go online to make requests for a large set of licences and registrations. Not just that. The government has also set a one-month deadline for applications to be either rejected or accepted. Since the online applications fall under RTS, any rejection can now go in to appeal with the higher authority — Maharashtra Industry, Trade and Investment Facilitation cell (MAITRI).The State government had decided to bring in a single-window platform to apply for permissions to set up industry under RTS. “The Chief Minister held a review meeting two days ago,” said a senior bureaucrat who attended the meeting. “The number of services to be made online under RTS was discussed in the meeting. As per the discussion, 45 services required to boost industry in the State will be taken online.”According to the information accessed by The Hindu , several permissions required from departments such as Environment, Labour, Finance, Urban Development, Revenue, Energy, Water Resources, and Food & Civil Supply can be applied online (See graphic). Calling it as the government’s yet another step to appease ‘small’ but ‘powerful’ community of businesspersons, activists said the government must bring in online and time-bound mechanism to solve problems of workers as well.“While owners have been given online method to enhance their businesses, we would request the government to launch similar mechanisms for workers. Will the government solve workers’ problems within a month’s time? Will there be online service for us too?” asked Dr DL Karad, Maharashtra secretary of Centre of Indian Trade Unions. Meanwhile, apart from these 45 services, which will be added to the list of online services, the government has decided to scale up its online operations. At present, the government offers only 46 services online. As per the expansion plans, 150 services, including these 45, will be made online under RTS.As a result, over 196 services will be accessible to the people of Maharashtra on the government portal of Aaple Sarkar, from January 26. RTS covers around 257 services.