http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Thiruvananthapuram/45834-raids-under-safe-campus-drive/article13989781.ece

As many as 45,834 raids have been conducted and 12,302 persons arrested (as of December 31, 2015) ever since the Clean Campus, Safe Campus programme was instituted.According to a press note here on Friday, P. Vijayan, State coordinator of the programme, 12,684 cases have been registered following these raids.Stringent raids are being conducted against the sale of drugs and liquor. Hashish, brown sugar, heroin, opium, drug tablets and ampules, ganja, pan masala, liquor, cigarettes, beedi, arrack, foreign liquor, and spurious liquor have been seized during these raids, the press note said.In all districtsSeminars, antidrug rallies, awareness classes, and exhibitions were conducted in all districts as part of the programme. A regional conference was conducted in Ernakulam to generate awareness about the programme among students and the public in Ernakulam, Thrissur, Kottayam, Idukki, and Alappuzha. The regional conference in Thiruvananthapuram held at the SAP parade ground saw the participation of 15,000 students, teachers, and parents, the press note said.Short filmsAs part of the State-wide awareness drive, short films — Laharippothi , Maranappothi and Unarvu — are being screened in schools. The play Iniyum Ithuvazhi was staged at rural district of Kozhikode. The documentary film Nerkazhcha , produced by the Kozhikode City police, is being screened at various localities. As part of the programme, a workshop was conducted in Thiruvananthapuram by students of the Sri Chithra Engineering College, Pappanamcode, and NSS volunteers. In Kollam district, the programme ‘Unarvu-2015’ was organised against drug abuse, the press note said.In Pathanamthittta, a short film, Chilanthikal, is being screened. A mass run to propagate the antidrug abuse message was organised in Kottayam district. Seminars in association with residents associations were held in Ernakulam. In Thrissur district, the awareness programme ‘Operation Vidyalaya’ is being held at all schools.A Special Investigation Team (SIT) comprising selected officers of the Kerala Police has been set up and a Kerala Anti-Narcotic Team is functioning under it. In 2015 December alone, this team was able to seize 80 kg of ganja in 10 separate cases and 700 Nitrasun tablets, the press note added.