http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Vijayawada/650-villages-set-to-bask-in-LED-glow/article14006884.ece

The State government on Monday issued a G.O., permitting the Commissioner of Panchayat Raj and Rural Development to invite Expression of Interest (EOI) from interested companies for replacing conventional streetlights in as many as 650 villages with LED lights.The villages have been identified as large in terms of population and resources for implementing the project.The Commissioner said that streetlights had been installed on more than 21 lakh electric poles in the villages and pegged the cost of installing LED streetlights across the State at Rs. 630 crore at the rate of Rs. 100 per watt.At present, the villages are paying, on an average, Rs. 200 to Rs. 250 crore towards electricity consumption charges. The expenditure is expected to come down by 45 to 55 per cent i.e., Rs. 100 to Rs. 150 crore after the installation of LED lights.It works out to savings of Rs. 1,000 crore in 10 years. Nearly 85 Mega Watts are estimated to be saved and used for industry, agriculture and other sectors.The 650 villages identified for the project have been found to have the requisite financial viability and energy meters for streetlights. The retrofitting of streetlights with LEDs will be extended to other panchayats in future depending on the result of the first phase. The selected companies have to bear the entire capital cost and take up the responsibility of operating and maintaining the LED systems for a period of 10 years.For the record, retrofitting of conventional streetlights has been so far confined to cities and municipalities owing to cost factor and logistics. The scheme will now be extended to villages under the Andhra Pradesh LED Rural Street Lighting Programme. The government has already installed 2.50 lakh LED streetlights in urban local bodies as against the 5.50 lakh LED streetlights installed across the country.Installation of LED streetlights across the State to cost Rs. 630 crore