http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/67th-Republic-Day-celebrated-amid-tight-security-in-Odisha/article14021987.ece

The 67th Republic Day was celebrated across Odisha amid unprecedented security cover on Tuesday.While Governor S. C. Jamir hoisted tricolour at the State-level celebration at Bhubaneswar, Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik unfurled the National Flag at Cuttack.Receiving warning from Intelligence Bureau in wake of recent terrorist attack in Pathankot and arrest of Islamic State and Al Qaeada operatives, the State police had thrown a four-tier security blankets around Mahatma Gandhi Marg here and Barabati Stadium where Governor and Chief Minister took salute respectively.Governor’s cavalcade reached the parade venue at around 8.30 am. He was received by Chief Secretary A. P. Padhi and Director General of Police K. B. Singh. Soon after hoisting of the flag, a spectacular march past presented by State police, school children and other civilian groups stole the show. More than 100 contingents participated in the parade. Security personnel and students put their best foot forward with precision and perfect synchronisation with the beating drums.Tableaux showcasing development in field of tribal affairs, agriculture, health, fire service and mineral resources were rolled down along the Mahatma Gandhi mark. Daredevil shows by girls and boys of city-based Maharshi College and skating skills shown by school children were the other attractions of the day.Dance troupes from Ganjam, Kalahandi, Puri and Koraput districts put an impressive display.At Barabati stadium, Chief Minister was taken in an open jeep for taking the salute.“We are taking various steps for development of Odisha. State’s growth rate is ahead of national growth rate. Odisha has also improved its rank in human development index. The development is reflected in education and infrastructure sector,” Mr. Patnaik said in his address.He said the State government was going to prepare a new start-up policy for encouraging youths to attempt new entrepreneurial ventures.“2015 was a problematic year for farmers. We will have to give more attention on Rabi crop in the future. We are cautious about development of agriculture in the State,” Chief Minister said. He also mentioned that the government would was taking steps so that invisible beneficiaries do not derail National Food Security Act implementation. There was no untoward incident reported from districts.