http://www.thehindu.com/features/downtown/75-years-in-the-promotion-of-education-for-girls/article14015919.ece

The platinum jubilee and alumni meet of Sri Ramakrishna Mission Sarada Vidyalaya schools were celebrated on January 8 and 9 at the RKM Sarada Vidyalaya School premises, Usman Road, T.Nagar. The school, founded by renowned social reformer and educationist R.S. Subbalakshmi Ammal, has been working towards promoting the cause of girls’ education.On January 8, a special puja, a Ganapathy homam and a Navagraha homam were performed in the morning. Bhajans in praise of the Holy Mother Sarada Devi were rendered.Swami Suhitananda, general secretary, Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission, Belur Math, and Swami Gautamananda, Adhyaksha, Ramakrishna Math, Chennai, graced the occasion.Swami Suhitananda unveiled the majestic statue of the Holy Mother decorated with colourful flowers. Swami Abhiramananda, adhyaksha, Coimbatore, addressed the gathering.Alumni felicitatedFelicitating the distinguished alumni and releasing the Platinum Jubilee souvenir were the highlights of the evening. Dr. V. Shantha, Director of Cancer Hospital, Adyar, was the chief guest. Swami Gautamananda presided and Swami Suhitananda released the souvenir and delivered the special address. The nine alumni felicitated are: Dr. T.S. Kanaka (surgeon), Sivasankari (writer), Revathi Sankaran (artist) K.S. Lakshmi (educationist), Shanthi Chandrasekar (entrepreneur), Andal Priyadharshini (media), Nithyashree Mahadevan (musician), Srimathi Vasudevan (sports) and S. Umavani (sports). They were honoured with a medal and a citation.Students performed a dance drama about Srinivasa Kalyanam and Acharya Choodamani from Ramanayana.Alumni MeetOn January 9, the alumni celebration started at 4.30 p.m. Pravrajika Ramaprana Mathaji, president of Sarada Math, Chennai, presided over the function and unveiled the photo of Subbalakshmi Ammal. Justice Chitra Venkatraman, retired Judge, High Court, Chennai, was the guest of honour.The retired headmistresses of the schools of Sarada Vidyalaya, who had done exemplary service during their tenures, were felicitated with a medal and citation. Subbalakshmi, Rajam, Vallivinayakam, Brinda, G.R. Meenakshi, R.M. Namagiri, R. Girija and C. Radha were felicitated.Students presented a cultural programme, which consisted of music, dance, skit, mono-acting and mimicry. They also presented a symphony of music with veena, mruthangam, violin and flute.