http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/kozhikode/A-breath-of-fresh-air-for-Maliyekkal-canal/article13985101.ece

: After months long protests and uncertainties, people residing along the Maliyekkal canal in Kundungal in the city can now sigh in relief as the renovation works of the canal took off a few days ago.Parts of the canal, which was a dirty drain clogged with plastic and other forms of waste and a breeding ground for mosquitoes, is now completely dredged and on the path of renovation. The water in the canal, which was barely flowing, is now being drained using pumps. The concrete poles that served as bridges across the canal have been removed.The canal, constructed in the British era, to connect the water bodies in the city, came into public attention after the residents in the area staged a protest a year ago. A malaria death in the vicinity strengthened their cause. The role of around 40 women of the neighbourhood, who formed a collective ‘Thantedam’ to fight against the neglect of the canal, was a major factor in drawing the attention of the authorities.Minister for Social Justice and Panchayats as well as the local MLA M.K. Muneer sanctioned Rs.50 lakh from his local development fund for the renovation of the canal in March 2015. However, the inaction for six months irked the residents who once again resorted to strong protests.“The work will be completed in three months. The bottom of the canal will once again be concreted. The side walls will be strengthened and concrete slabs will be used to cover them”, said M.P. Koyatti, Secretary of the Maliyekkal Residents Association.However, a section of the residents claim that the funds were not sufficient to complete the renovation of the canal. “The minister had promised another Rs.50 lakh in October 2015. He had also promised Rs.29 lakh to renovate the canal at Malikathazham when a child died there due to viral infection. Both have not been sanctioned. Even with that amount, the renovation will not be completed”, said M.P. Shanovar, a resident of the area, who have been instrumental in founding ‘Thantedam’.