http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/A-beautiful-pea-green-dal/article14015942.ece

We are all familiar with pigeon pea lentils or thuvar dal as it is better known. But, how many of us actually give a thought to the pigeon-pea plant? I know I haven’t. I just buy my regular supply of dal from the stores and that’s about it. A few days ago my sister-in-law, Ramya, pointed out a tall shrub.The pods resembled the familiar country beans but the size and variegated stripes did not.I was actually looking at the the Thuvarai. Ramya plucked one deep green pod and popped it open to reveal round pale green pea like kernels. I tasted it and knew straight away that this was going to find it’s way to my table. My everyday dry lentil just got elevated to a fresh produce status.In it’s tender state the thuvarai is sweet and juicy.I’m a big fan of all beans and legumes. My store room shelves hold large glass bottles of all kinds of payiru , my freezer has boxes of sprouted beans and my lunch menu always features one of these on a daily basis.I was thrilled to add one more variety to my list. Not only are these high in protein but adapt themselves beautifully into a variety of cooking styles and recipes. They can be made into a gravy, a semi-masala side dish or even fried to be served as a snack.The plant resembles a dry , sparse ,sort of unruly shrub. The kind that would grow in more arid regions. And it takes about six months to start bearing fruit.The thuvarai plant plays a big role in soil rejuvenation. It is a drought tolerant crop which accounts for it’s woody, twisted look. It actually does not take too well to overwatering or excessive rainfall. There are a group of bacteria that form a symbiosis with the legumes and help in the production of nitrogen in the soil. Dry farm lands grow a mix of oil-seeds, pulses and legumes because these enrich the soil. It is recommended to plant this thuvarai, when the soil is damp, well before the flowering season, when it has the time to go through a cycle of growth.The leaves that shed from the plant make good mulch that improves the soil. It is a good idea to use it as a border plant for a vegetable patch. Not only does it condition the soil but acts as a barrier against wind.Ramya cooked me a delicious thuvarai curry. The seeds, went perfectly with the South Indian flavours of onion, garlic, curry leaf and tomato. We had it for lunch with millets, then for dinner with dosai and again for breakfast with idli. It was a big hit with the family and I went thuvarai picking the very next day.