http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/A-believer-in-good-scripts/article13986449.ece

After playing the character of younger K in last year's “X: Past Is Present”, a collaborative feature film directed by 11 directors, actor Anshuman Jha will be seen in Onir’s “Chauranga” with Tanishtha Chatterjee. The film is scheduled to be released today. Jha will be seen in Pradeep Singrole’s upcoming film “Robinhood Ke Pote”. Debuting in Dibakar Banerjee’s “Love Sex Aur Dhokha” in 2010, he was also in “Jhumroo”, a musical comedy at Kingdom of Dream’s Nautanki Mahal. Apart from films, theatre and television commercials he also assisted veteran filmmaker Subhash Ghai in “Kanchi and Black and White”. The trained dancer and martial artist, Anshuman believes that a good script is like a gospel for him and wants to explore all possible genres of acting.In Capital recently to promote Bikas Ranjan Mishra’s “Chauranga”, the actor spoke to The Hindu about his stint as assistant director, theatre and of course “Chauranga”Edited excerpts from the interactionWhat made you work as assistant director while acting in films?When I was in college, I made a documentary “Life on Four Wheels” which was based on taxi drivers of Mumbai who landed in the city to become actors. When Subhash Ghai read the synopsis of that film in America, he called me to assist in his next film as a chief assistant director in India. So I suppose it is destiny. Also, industry experts told me that due to my child-like face, I may not be fit for roles which I want to do and asked me to wait another five to six years to act in the films. Subhash sir always tells me that the best way to learn to act is to be on sets. So initially, I started to learn on sets and at the same time it was a good way of earning pocket money as I was a student that time.Tell us about Dibakar Banerjee’s “Love Sex Aur Dhokha”Dibakar Banerjee was always a dream director for me after I saw his “Oye Lucky Lucky Oye” and it was destiny that when I was rehearsing for Girish Karnad's play “Bali”, the casting director Atul Mongia of “Love Sex Aur Dhokha” asked me to come for the screen test. That is how I got a chance to work for him.On opting for theatre after the success of “Love Sex Aur Dhokha”Theatre has always been an important part of my life having started from there as a young actor and worked with theatre personalities like Quasar Padamsee, Joy Fernandes and Jaimini Pathak who taught me the acting craft and the importance of the script. Just like artist who does riyaz (practice), as an actor theatre is my riyaz. After “Love Sex…” the roles offered were not what I wanted hence I I continued doing theatre to hone my acting skills. I am determined to give by best in all the roles.You appeared in campaigns of Tata sky and Kaun Banega Crorepati. How different are films from advertisement?Acting for advertisement is totally different from acting for films as in the former you have to sell a product, tell a story and entertain the people in limited time, so it is very challenging. In films, on the other hand, you have enough time to create a drama and there is scope to impact audience through many scenes which is not possible in ads.Tell us about your role in “Chauranga”.“Chauranga” has those people associated with it, whom I have grown up loving. I am doing the role of a young Brahmin who is very arrogant towards the lower caste people. The role appealed to me. As I am also a Brahmin and have seen this kind of behaviour myself when I used to visit my maternal village in Bihar, the character of a patriarch head in waiting who does not have any feeling towards lower caste was somewhere known to me. So I managed to do it and I think the audience would also like it.