http://www.thehindu.com/features/downtown/A-bridge-that-could-solve-the-trafficproblem-near-Sai-Baba-temple/article14015913.ece

A narrow bridge running parallel to Alamelu Mangapuram, Mylapore, may provide a solution to the traffic problem near the famous Sai Baba Temple, say residents of the neighbourhood. Used by pedestrians and cyclists way back in 1980s, this bridge was ignored and eventually blocked after encroachments came up near it. Now, it is in complete disuse.“Many years ago, this was provided another way of entering Saradapuram to reach Dr. Ranga Road and vice versa. It was a small passage and, at best, a person could ride a bicycle on it. It was never widened. With encroachments coming up near the bridge, it was made out of bounds for pedestrians and cyclists with concrete blocks. Also the presence of a slum kept people away from the bridge,” says Seshadri Baskar, a long-time resident who used to walk down the bridge in the 80s to reach V.C. Garden Street, Mylapore.Meanwhile, the bridge near the Sai Baba Temple was widened. “In recent years, the traffic situation near the Sai Baba Temple has worsened. Though the bridge was widened, it has not helped ease traffic movement. The Corporation can look at widening the other bridge so that at least some traffic is diverted there. It will provide a permanent solution to the traffic problem in the area,” he adds.Like many others, G. Raghavan, another resident, was unaware of the presence of this bridge, but he too feels that if strengthened and widened, it could prove very helpful. “Thursdays are a nightmare for residents living near the Baba temple. The bridge seems a good option to address the traffic issue,” he says. Also, the pavement along the bridge in use is too wide, residents say. “This itself makes the road narrow. If the pavement is reduced by half, more space will be available for vehicles to move,” says Baskar. He has already spoken to officials from the Bridges Department. “They have promised to look into the suggestion. I hope they will act on it,” he adds.