http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/A-big-boost-to-irrigation-in-State/article14005113.ece

Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday ordered immediate calling of tenders for construction of barrages at Medigadda, Annaram and Sundilla, all located along river Godavari between Kaleswaram and Yellampalli.The purpose of the barrages is to divert water at each of these places to avoid submergence of land in Maharashtra and drain down to Yellampalli project for irrigation to its ayacut. They will all be part of Kaleswaram project whose works Mr. Rao proposed to inaugurate after offering prayers at the famous Shiva temple in Kaleswaram, a release said after an official meeting chaired by him to review irrigation projects in the State.The release recalled Mr. Rao praying at the temple while leading the separate Telangana agitation and expressed his eagerness to go there again since his prayers were answered.Mr. Rao said the government did not intend to scrap the project proposed at Tammidihatti, upstream of Kaleswaram, but it will be remodelled for better results. A barrage will be constructed there on river Pranahita to irrigate two lakh acres in Adilabad district. Hence, it was decided to order a survey by WAPCOS, a consultancy organisation of Ministry of Water Resources, for construction of barrage and a balancing reservoir at Tammidihatti.Maharashtra had favoured the Kaleswaram project at Medigadda. Its Chief Minister and senior leaders from the State, including Union Ministers, evinced interest in it. However, people had to be taken into confidence by publishing a report. It should elaborate why the government took up redesign of projects, utility of Kaleswaram project and barrage at Medigadda, construction of Tammidihatti project, how the Devadula project would be converted to deliver better results and the usage of Yellampalli project, Mr. Rao said. He also said the previous government designed Pranahita-Chevella project at Tammidihatti in a bid to stall the works. The WAPCOS had not cleared it, yet the government went ahead constructing the project on Pranahita, a tributary, instead of the main river. These issues should be informed to the public. As regards Palamuru lift-irrigation scheme, Mr. Rao asked the officials concerned to prepare an action plan to complete reservoirs for the same at Nartapur, Edula, Vattem and Karven within two years. The government will allocate Rs. 30,000 crore annually, including Rs. 5,000 crore from various other schemes, for irrigation.The purpose of the barrages is to divert water to avoid submergence of land in Maharashtra