http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/A-confident-debut/article14024583.ece

M alavikha Wales was among the new faces launched by Vineeth Sreenivasan in his directorial debut, Malarvadi Arts Club . The doe-eyed beauty went on to do more movies in Malayalam and got offers from the Tamil, Kannada and Telugu film industries. She, however, could not capitalise on her dream debut. Malavikha has now changed track. At present, she is working for the mini-screen. She plays the lead in ‘Ponnambili’, a family drama on Mazhavil Manorama. Malavikha, who is also a classical dancer, talks about her tryst with television and her career.Moving on to televisionI opted for the project because of its merit. It is a character that I have never played before and I am not sure if I will get such a role on the big screen. It is based on a novel by Sudhakar Mangalodayam. You rarely come across such characters in daily soaps and I believe I have made the right decision in doing the role.On her characterI play Ponnambili. She has lost her mother and she does various jobs to take care of her family comprising her father, her elder brother, her two younger sisters and her cousin. Ponnambili works at a textile unit. She earns extra money by playing the chenda. I learnt the basics from a chenda exponent in Thrissur to play the percussion instrument. Although, there is grief in the story, it is also about the courage and will-power of Ponnambili. Since television is a new medium for me, I was nervous when I started shooting for the serial, but, later, fell into the groove.Entry into tinsel townI was a participant of the Miss Kerala 2009 contest and was adjudged 'Miss Beautiful Eyes'. At 16, I was the youngest contestant of the competition. That recognition gave me confidence and eventually got me the role in Malarvadi... It was my father, the late P. G. Wales, who encouraged me to take part in the contest. I started modelling and that led to offers from the Tamil, Telugu and Kannada film industries. What really came in handy was a three-month diploma course in acting I did at Anupam Kher’s acting school, Actor Prepares. I cherish his lectures and classes. He is my idol.Serial vs. cinemaI have heard that once you start doing serials, it is difficult to get good roles in films. I am not worried about that and I am enjoying the recognition and appreciation coming my way now. It is true that my film career didn’t touch great heights. I would have been really thrilled if that had happened, because actors are better remembered for their roles in cinema than in serials. But then I am happy with what I am doing now.Up nextI have been learning classical dance since I was a child. Dance will always be a part of me. If good roles in movies come my way, I will definitely do it.(‘Ponnambili’ airs on Mazhavil Manorama from Monday to Friday at 10 p.m.)