http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/A-compact-deal/article14001645.ece

Mahindra as an auto manufacturer has always been known for their SUVs, the tough and rugged vehicles . And there is every reason to believe that, in 2016, Mahindra is eyeing a bigger customer base. Not just from their SUV segment but beyond.Thus at the launch of Mahindra KUV100 this past week saw the car manufacturer branding it as a compact SUV. And that, I believe, is to take a cue from the enviable repute it enjoys when it comes to SUVs. For, branding apart there isn’t much in which KUV100 would relate to an SUV.However, I must say, it is intelligent on the maker’s part to project it this way. Now, it’s your take whether to take ‘compact’ more seriously than ‘SUV’. For, neither in size nor in drive, the car can be put into the club of Sports Utility Vehicles. Nonetheless, there are some good innovative design changes that the car maker has come up with. Like the first in class flexi seating to seat six passengers. The front row has an option of the third seat in the middle with the hand break and the gear box all taken care of and put into the central console. And the fancy looking differently-designed door handles on the doors at the rear.At the launch event, Dr. Pawan Goenka, Executive Director, Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd described the newly manufactured car as a “defining moment in the automotive journey of Mahindra. KUV100 is our first foray into ground up petrol engine and with it we are defining a new SUV sub-segment and targeting a new customer group.”The petrol engine has been incorporated in the car as it is powered by mFALCON engine to deliver a high low-end torque. Thus, bringing in some peppiness in the performance. The dual Variable Valve Timing petrol engine of 1.2 litre gives a power of 82bhp and a torque of 115Nm.The diesel variant comes with a 1.2 litre turbo-charged engine with CRDi technology. It manages 77bhp of power with a torque of 190Nm. Further, the maker claims to offer a mileage which is unheard of when it comes to SUVs.Yes, the diesel variant comes with a mileage of 25.32kmpl. For the petrol variant the figure stands at 18.15kmpl.All these promising statistics aside, there is no doubt that Mahindra has taken the game up one more level this time. And, it is playing aggressively. But, it is still to be seen how the customers take it on from here. KUV100 is certainly not just an entry into a new segment for there is a lot at stake for Mahindra this year. A sort of inflection point for the maker after its good old Scorpio. So, until we bring you the drive review of KUV100, I suggest this one from Mahindra should be kept in mind. Considering it starts from Rs. 4, 42,000 (ex-Pune) and goes up till Rs. 6,76,000.