http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/A-classic-with-a-twist/article14001553.ece

An adaptation of the classic play Medea was performed recently by students of Mount Carmel College directed by Noella Ferrao. The play revolves around a cruel and wicked woman named Medea who seeks vengeance when her husband, Jacob, leaves her to marry a young princess.She murders his bride and even kills the children she had with Jacob to inflict suffering upon him. In the end, her dark intentions and cruel actions leave her alone and miserable.The play stands out for its use of the classical Greek chorus technique along with conifer storytelling forms. With only six actors, the play is a powerful piece of theatre, made effective by the use of bright red and orange coloured lights and musical cues. Audience member Manasa Saralaya says: “It was well scripted and all the actors were in character. The story was clear cut. It was a good play!”Another member of the audience, Shruti Sarda, says: “I really liked how they all changed their roles.”Having started training and practice in September, the students were very proud of what they put up in the end. Aparna Shekhar, a first year student who took part in the play, says: “All the effort gone into the play was really intense, but enjoyable at the same time. Our director, Noella, has high expectations and she encouraged us a lot. All of us have now become a tight-knit group.” When asked about the most challenging part of acting in the play, she says “This is my first actual play. Shifting roles and getting into the skin of each character is very essential. This play has characters with dark emotions and it was a fantastic experience.”On the response they’ve received, she adds: “I believe this play is very relevant in today’s world. With the high rate of divorces, I’m sure people still have such dark thoughts, though may not actually execute them.”The display of young talent on stage was impressive and refreshing for the audience, as parents cheered proudly and theatre enthusiasts gave a standing ovation at the end of the play.