http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Vijayawada/A-celestial-treat-over-the-weekend/article13978517.ece

There’s good news for amateur astronomers over the New Year weekend. They can get into action and keep track of two celestial phenomena. The first one is the Perihelion, the day the Sun and Earth are the closest. Coincidentally, the Perihelion has come on a Sunday this year.Explaining the phenomenon, the director of the Planetary Society, India, N Sri Raghunandan Kumar said, “The Earth revolves around the Sun in an elliptical (oval) orbit. At one point, the Earth is at its closest and that usually falls on January 3.”Earth is approximately 147 million km from the Sun at Perihelion. There is a variation of 5 million km between the Sun and the Earth when they are at Perihelion and Aphelion. Though distance from the Sun decides seasons and temperature, the tilt of the axis is also very important, Mr. Kumar said.Since most of the countries fall in the Northern Hemisphere and the current season there is winter, the impact of Perihelion is not much, Mr Kumar said, adding that the impact of Aphelion too would not be considerable in terms of heat as it occurs during winter in the Southern Hemisphere as well.While there is a relationship between the distance between the Sun and the tides, there seems to be no difference in the height of tidal waves according to maps of tides on the Coromandel Coast on Sunday due to the presence of moon that nullifies the impact.The moon has a major influence on the Earth’s tides, but the sun also generates considerable tidal forces. Solar tides are about half as large as lunar tides and are expressed as a variation of lunar tidal patterns, not as a separate set of tides. Normally when the Sun, the Moon, and the Earth are in alignment (during new or full moon), the solar tide has an additive effect on the lunar tide, creating higher tides and very low tides. Similarly, when the Sun and the Moon are at right angles to each other, the solar tide partially cancels out the lunar tide and produces moderate tides.Peak of meteor showerThe Quadrantids Meteor Shower that began on December 28 and will continue till January 12 is set to peak after 2.30 a.m. on Monday. Comets and asteroids pass through the Solar System, leaving behind space dust. When the Earth passes these dust clouds, particles that are about the size of sand grains hit the Earth’s atmosphere and burn up some times in a spectacular blaze of light, Mr. Kumar said.According to the International Meteor Organisation (IMO) estimates, the number of meteors visible would vary between 60 and 120 shooting stars and hour. Telescopes are not required to see these showers.Amateur astronomers should search the sky from 2.30 a.m. onwards (early hours of Monday) in the East and North-East directions. The shooting stars will appear as if emanating from the constellation of Bootes.Astronomers can also observe Mars “in conjunction with the Moon”, Kumar said. Mars can be seen just above the moon, slightly to the right like a non-twinkling red star.