http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/A-choice-between-two-titans/article13988567.ece

On January 3, Press Trust of India reported that the Delhi-based Jammu and Kashmir Study Centre had sent a proposal to the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) that the Mandi House circle should be re-named as Abhinavagupta Chowk since it “does not have an official name till date.” The Centre has drawn up elaborate plans to pay tribute to the memory of Abhinavagupta who, according to it, had died one thousand years ago on January 4, 1016 in Kashmir. It has formed the Acharya Abhinavagupta Millennium Ceremony Committee headed by Sri Sri Ravi Shankar of the Art of Living fame. Actor Anupam Kher happens to be one of the key members of the committee.But, who was Abhinavagupta?Abhinavagupta was an outstanding philosopher, ascetic and aesthetician who straddled the 10th and 11th centuries. He was also a theorist of the Pratyabhijna school of Kashmiri Shaivite monism. In the words of Mahamahopadhyaya Pandurang Vaman Kane, a recipient of the Bharat Ratna, Abhinavagupta was “one of the most remarkable personalities of medieval India. He was a man of very acute intellect and was an encyclopaedic scholar.” With Bharata (whose Natyashastra forms the basis of the Indian discourse on poetry, drama, dance and music) and Anandavardhana, he is among the very greatest in Indian aesthetics. He paid his tribute to his worthy intellectual ancestors by writing commentaries on their works. It is a measure of his genius that his commentaries –– “Abhinavabharati” on Bharata’s Natyashastra and “Lochana” on Anandavardhan’s Dhvanyaloka –– are as, if not more, famous as the works that they discuss and interpret. It was Abhinavagupta who established Shanta Rasa as the most important literary value, saying “the eight rasas are like eight gods, and shanta is like their highest centre, the Shiva.”The proposal to re-christen the Mandi House circle after Abhinavagupta brought memories of another proposal to re-name this circle after Bharata and took me back to the 1970s and mid-1980s when ‘Dinman’ used to be one of the most prestigious Hindi publications. Top Hindi writer Sachchidanand Hiranand Vatsyayan ‘Agyeya’ was its founder editor who had conceptualized it in an utterly novel fashion. It had regular columns that offered hungry Hindi readers valuable material on what appeared in the international press, what kind of political events were taking place in India and abroad, what were the latest intellectual trends, what was the state of Indian and world cinema, literature, theatre, dance and painting. Because of ‘Agyeya’, many well-known Hindi writers such as Raghuvir Sahay, Shrikant Verma, Sarveshwar Dayal Saxena, Prayag Shukla and Vinod Bharadwaj joined the magazine. After editing it for a few years, ‘Agyeya’ handed over the torch to Raghuvir Sahay.Sarveshwar Dayal Saxena used to write a weekly column ‘Charche aur Charkhe’ (Gossip and Spin) in ‘Dinman’. In one of these columns published in September, 1981, he had made a suggestion that the Mandi House circle should be named Bharata Chowk because over the decades, it had emerged as a place around which activities related to literature, music, dance, drama and painting were taking place all the time. It was a confluence of Bhagwan Das Road, Tansen Marg, Barakhamba Road, Ferozeshah Road and Copernicus Road. On Tansen Marg stood Triveni Kala Sangam that had three art galleries, an auditorium and an open-air theatre, and Shri Ram Centre for Arts. The circle was surrounded by the three national academies –– Sahitya Akademi, Lalit Kala Akademi and Sangeet Natak Akademi, National School of Drama, Kathak Kendra (it has now moved into its own building in the Chanakyapuri area), Jhankar Dance Repertory, Shriram Bharatiya Kala Kendra and Kamani Auditorium. Delhi College of Arts was also very close by.After recounting all these features of the Mandi House circle, Sarveshwar Dayal Saxena argued: “Bharata Muni is the only person who is associated with every art form and on the edifice of whose Natyashastra stands the monumental architecture of Indian dance, drama, music and literature. If Mandi House circle is named after Bharata Muni, the Delhi administration will be bestowing dignity to this cultural axis of the nation’s capital city.”It’s not an easy choice between Bharata and Abhinavagupta. Both are titans. However, I tend to agree with Sarveshwar Dayal Saxena. Bharata Muni has the first right of passage. The Mandi House circle should be called Bharata Chowk.The writer is a senior literary critic