http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/A-cross-section-of-world-theatre/article13998741.ece

The style of presentation took a paradigm shift at the International Theatre Festival of Kerala (ITFoK) here. Deviating from the cliched linear style, if the storytelling pattern unfolded through documentation in one play, puppetry, or dance-drama was the accent in others. Some of the plays were even staged at different venues, taking the audience through various experiences.Baling , an enchanting performance by Five Arts Centre, Malaysia, threw light on the Baling talks – a unique attempt to bring peace in the war-devastated Malayan peninsula – with help of publicly available transcripts.In last 11 years Baling had come up with five versions, noted Director Mark Teh.“We use traditional performances and combine them with the contemporary,” said Anne, one of the actors. Baling constantly questions the meaning of nation, loyalty, terrorism, reconciliation, sacrifice, surrender and independence.Zoukak Theatre of Lebanon was created in 2006 as a collective against the demeaning scenarios in the country. Theatre is a political space for them to say stories of the wars. Three of their productions – Silk Thread, Heavens and The Battle Scene – are being performed at the festival.Silk Thread provided an all new experience for the audience. A site-specific performance was played in seven different venues. It explores the inherited social structures that define and shape gender stereotypes.The artistes of Zoukak believe in body politics. In Heavens (2012), body is stiff and doesn’t have movements where the core notion is to create a feel that body is heavy by carrying the weight of history.The Battle Field, which involves a lot of action, says body is the weapon.“After 1946 there is no history in Lebanon, schools in Lebanon do not teach Lebanon history. It’s our responsibility to have a political view and talk about an alternative history,” said Junaid Sarieddeen, director of Zoukak.“We want to talk about the story of not the winners but about the people and victims,” said Omar Abi Azar of the theatre.Two other plays, Garbage Monster and Magic Tree by Cengiz Ozek Theatre, Turkey, used the scope of shadow theatre.