http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/A-celebration-of-literature/article14001558.ece

The Jaipur Literature festival is seen as one of the most popular confluence of popular authors and thinkers from across the globe and the sixth edition of the festival, scheduled to be held at the Diggy Palace in Jaipur from January 21 to 25, promises to be bigger than ever.With a rich literary tradition and emerging base for young writers, Bengaluru will see a host of writers participate in the literature fest, launching books and participating in discussions and debates.Metroplus talks to some Bengaluru authors, who will attend the festival, on their thoughts on JLF and whether Bengaluru is emerging as a base of sorts for young writers, both in terms of setting a novel and finding a young captive audience.Raghu KarnadAuthor of Farthest Field, a novel that documents the journey of three Indian soldiers who fought in the Second World War in a host of theaters from Iraq to the icy wastes of the North west Frontier Province to the jungles of Manipur and BurmaOn JLF: I have always looked at the JLF with great admiration – for how it manages to be both glamorous and inclusive, which is so rare in India. They have set that as an example for many smaller Indian festivals, which I deeply appreciate. I do worry a bit about ‘booksing’, which means talking a lot about books but not actually reading them. I feel that if we are going to celebrate anything, collectively, in this country, I will choose lit fests over religious festivals any day.Bengaluru as a base for writers: I'm not sure. I move a lot between Delhi and Bangalore, and Delhi is such a carnival of authors and publishing action that it makes Bangalore looks like a small town in comparison. I would much rather it stayed that way. I believe the real emerging scene is in Mysore. Mahesh Rao has made that the happening lit scene in Karnataka.Rise of historical fiction: Some of the oldest literature that exists, in our society and in the West are narratives of war. In modern India, the literary world has broken off contact with the military. We’ve left war-writing to pulp-novelists, which is a great loss, because the best war stories are anything but conservative. Recently, Indian writers have been coming to grips with war again – Amitav Ghosh being one of the trailblazers. The best books are about the colonial wars of the Indian Army, because there’s no expectation there that they be virtuous or nationalistic, and you can focus on being true to the world and the participants’ experience.Anita NairAuthor of over 10 books including Alphabet Soup for LoversOn JLF: I think that literature fests such as the Jaipur Lit fest reduce the gap between the readers and writers. From the perspective of a young writer, it provides you an opportunity to learn more about the people who read your work and help get more perspectives. The discussions and interactions help broaden your horizons and one can discover new authors and genres at such events.Bengaluru as a base for writers: I do not see any boom in the number of writers in English from Bengaluru. I feel that though Bengaluru is very rich culturally, there are not many serious writers at least in English from the city. As far as writing about the city goes, a host of issues have not been explored fully.Vivek ShanbaghAuthor of five story collections, two plays and three novels and a novella, Ghachar Ghochar that has been translated into English by Srinath PerurOn JLF: I think literature fests, especially the ones conducted locally help bring about a lot of interest in books, especially in the vernacular languages, thanks to the number of people who visit these fests. Apart from that, I feel fest like the JLF help enhance visibility of books, bring about more discussions and provides a forum to meet and talk to authors and thinkers. I feel that it helps build a sort of emotional connect between the authors and the readers.Bengaluru as a base for young authors: When a city grows, people from all walks of life come into it. I think it is a welcome development that new writers are emerging from Bengaluru. The city has been a melting pot of cultures and has people writing in different languages. It has many spaces that allows discussions on books and literature. It is not restricted to one particular language.