http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/A-diva-with-a-difference/article14011051.ece

Laxmi calls it empowerment of the right kind. And many agree. Today, the acid attack survivor is busy with her latest assignment — as the face of women’s apparel at Viva N Diva. The 26-year-old mother was burnt beyond recognition in a terrible acid attack in 2005 when she was just 16 years old. A man twice her age threw acid on her in a busy market because she rejected his advances.Her partner Alok, a social activist who works for the welfare of acid attack victims, says he is proud of the latest assignment she has bagged.“It is a one-year contract and goes well with the motto of the work we do for acid attack victims,” said Alok, who runs the “Stop Acid Attack Campaign” along with Laxmi.“The idea is to tell the world that acid attack victims and their lives go beyond the attack, and that is what this advertisement stint is all about. This is me and I am beautiful,” added Laxmi.Manan Shah and Rupesh Jhawar, the duo behind the initiative, said: “This was our very first attempt at making a difference. As young entrepreneurs, we have always believed that the only way to rise above is to fight and earn the respect we deserve. We do not believe in charity, but believe in providing a platform for everyone and anyone who deserves and can fight to earn it. And she [Laxmi] fought and won. We are not looking for recognition but awareness. We want people to change their outlook towards fashion and create acceptance.”A statement released by the company noted: “A few months back, we sat in our offices and looked at images of a calendar shoot. The photographer had captured the essence of a few acid attack victims and for the first time we saw faces — faces without makeup, without lipstick or eyeliner, just lines and patches that told a story. This was both disturbing and inspiring for us. And this advertisement is all about seeing beauty in a very different way. All we thought was to capture it to give it a meaning, to remove any speck of being a victim from those eyes and give them a stage, employment and a platform or medium to flaunt it with style.”