http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/A-delightful-meeting-of-minds/article13986391.ece

An event which I look forward to every year during the Season is the morning concert at Sri Parthasarathi Swami Sabha in which vocalist R. Suryaprakash, violinist M.A. Sundareswaran and mridangam artist Thiruvarur Bhaktavatsalam get together, displaying an amazing rapport.Just like his guru T.V. Sankaranarayanan, Suryaprakash has a vigorous style of singing, which also mysteriously reminds you of the soft and delicate texture of the music of his grand-guru, the legendary Madurai Mani Iyer.Violinist Sundareswaran too has a way of faithfully echoing the gentle undertones of Mani Iyer’s music, even as he matches Surya’s forceful vocal flourishes. As for Bhaktavathsalam, his mridangam can somehow ring sonorously like church bells even when thundering on like an express train.The second percussionist supporting this almost permanent trio varies from year to year, but is also usually an outstanding musician. This year it was the turn of B.S. Purushothaman, who is one of the few artists who can endow the simple-looking ganjira with a rich tone. His close rapport with the mridangam player made him a compatible member of the team; and together they set up a large canvas of sound on which the vocalist and violinist could apply beautiful brush-strokes.The accent on beauty was evident right from the start, with the pada varnam ‘Roopamu Joochi’ (in raga Thodi, composed by Ramaswami Dikshitar), a lovely, dance-worthy exercise rarely heard in the concert hall. This was followed by Thyagaraja’s ‘Nijamarmamulanu’ in raga Umabharanam.The concert progressed steadily with Gopalakrishna Bharati’s song ‘Natamaadum Naadan’ in Purvikalyani, with the preceding alapana and concluding swara sequences setting up the Madurai Mani touch. Then followed a brisk rendering of Thyagaraja’s evergreen ‘Manavyala’ in Nalinakanti, with super-fast swara clusters.The main number was Thyagaraja’s ‘Kaligiyunte’ in raga Kiravani, which took up a whole hour and provided adequate scope for all the musicians to give a spectacular demonstration of their individual and collective ability. The trade-off between the percussionists in the thani avartanam reinforced the vigorous and soulful quality of the morning’s music.A concise RTP in an unusual twin-raga setting (Khambodi and Ranjani) followed, and a Thiruppugazh song in Sankarabharanam rounded off the delightful concert.