http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/A-fair-mix/article14019545.ece

India Art Fair is not bigger but better, claim all those associated with the big ticket visual arts event held annually in the country. The number of galleries has come down from 85 in 2015 to 70 this year, for a reason. Zain Masud, the new member on board as the International Director of India Art Fair, reveals the uncharted territories India Art Fair 2016 is venturing into.Edited excerpts from an interview:Is the fair getting an academic tilt this year?This sort of intellectual content is certainly the hallmark of this year’s fair. We have some incredible speakers. We have collaborated with Asia Art Archive, Godrej India Culture Lab and we have some great conversations. So, there is more meat on the bones of India Art Fair. We are opening the fair to other players in the region with respect to their commercial endeavours but it also reflects other practices and activities taking place in these countries.You were involved with Art Dubai, which has some excellent programming. Do you bring any of those influences and experiences to India Art Fair?No, I don’t but all these five years I was with Art Dubai, I was keenly following the programming of India Art Fair. It reflected all sort of content. We have some fantastic collectors from China, Turkey and the UAE who tackle the same challenges of tackling public engagement with their private collections. We reflect regions who share similar challenges and similar history.With the inclusion of Experimenta, a film programme curated by Shai Heredia, do you think the fair is getting more interdisciplinary?I think it is a natural first step bringing more disciplines into the fold, whether it is food, politics, I think it is a natural progression towards that. Also, the whole city comes alive with activities during the time India Art Fair is taking place. The fair is triggering off so many things which is fantastic. It is a very relevant position for us. To have a good balance of everything is the goal of an art fair.With so many biennales, art fairs and summits taking place in this region, what is the distinct identity India Art Fair is striving to create for itself?The more the better. Kochi-Muziris Biennale, Dhaka Art Summit, Colombo Art Biennale…all of these grew in the wake of India Art Fair. And all these come together to develop a compelling case of South Asia. It is really exciting because the region offers so many opportunities.The fair tries to reflect on the subcontinent. There are more galleries and artists from Sri Lanka, Pakistan, Nepal and Bangladesh? Is there a renewed focus on South Asia?Yes, there has always been that desire to reflect the region well but we have consciously made this attempt this year. Pakistani artists Lala Rukh and Ayesha Jatoi will discuss their practice in a session. The new programme called Platform will represent new artists, collectives and art spaces from Nepal, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Pakistan for instance there is Nepal Art Council from Nepal, Theertha Artists Collective from Sri Lanka, Taseer Art Gallery from Pakistan.The number of participating galleries has come down. What does that signify?Every good art fair in the world has a qualifying process. This year we wanted to emphasise on quality work to our audiences.HIGHLIGHTSSpeakers’ Forum will include panellists like Stuart Comer (Chief Curator of the Department of Media and Performance Art at MoMA, New York); Osman Waheed (Founder and Chair, Lahore Biennale Foundation) and Dina Bangdel (Nepal Arts Council). Significant collectors such as Tariq al Jaidah (Founder of Katara Art Centre, Doha), Haro Cumbusyan (Patron and Founder, Collectorspace, Istanbul), and Lu Xun (Collector and director of the Sifang Art Museum, Nanjing) will speak on ‘Collecting and Public Engagement.’Institutional is another new programme which will include institutions like the Delfina Foundation, Dr. Bhau Daji Lad Museum, Kiran Nadar Museum of Art, Jindal Art Center and the Korean Cultural Centre IndiaShai Heredia (filmmaker and Director of Experimenta, India’s international festival for moving image art) is curating a collection of video art and films from different parts of the world for the inaugural film programme of the fair.BMW has replaced Yes Bank as the title sponsor and the automobile giant will be showcasing one of its art cars — the Cesar Manrique BMW 730i Art Car, at the event.(India Art Fair will be held from January 28 to 31 at NSIC Grounds, Okhla.)