http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/A-father%E2%80%99s-day-out/article14026836.ece

Going out for dinner after a hard at work is often a no-win situation. For going out, you have to muster up some energy after a pretty sapping day in the traffic of Delhi. Not going out is not much of an option; one does need change to break the tedium. The other day though I was in luck. I went down to Mosaic hotel’s Flluid restaurant in Noida’s Sector 18 market. It started off as a father’s indulging his kids, it ended as quite a nice, cheerful evening for the father too.Mosaic is as easy to reach in the bustling market today as Dharam Palace cinema was in the years gone by. Barely a minute’s walk from the Metro station, the place is all quiet from inside. So much so when a spoon touches a plate you hear its gentle sound not the cacophony of the traffic outside. And Flluid on the ground floor is not the teeming with energy place I dread. It has a nice leisurely ring to it, something that makes conversation desirable and in itself quite soothing. Which is not to say the food is not much to write about. In fact, it is.The pleasant surprises start, well, at the beginning. Litchi juice comes in a hipflask. It gets my kids on tenterhooks. I enjoy their reaction, their unsaid but not unexpressed apprehension. The chef giving us company at the beginning smiles. The litchi juice in a hipflask is a fine change from the usual watermelon juice I end up having at the beginning of my meals.Then comes the next innovation in the name of fusion: mustard and curry leaf tempered vegetable clear soup. Quite mild and soothing. The kabab platter for starters is a mixed delight. I do not quite approve of mutton boti ke taco which is nothing but a piece of mutton on a little parantha. The earlier roti pe boti that I had at Latitude was better. But here chilly chicken spring rolls make up for any deficiency. And bun aamlet – I quite like the desi name – is such a wonderful surprise. It has layers to rival the stuff you will get at fast food restaurant but much better in taste; the bun actually starts leaving its impact on the palate after a few seconds. An old-timer I stick to the tried, tested and tasted. The kids try the innovation which the new menu offers – so it is good old chicken tikka again for me before I go in for fusion options Not entirely comfortable with innovation on the dining table, I give a quiet nod though; the stuff tastes reasonably good. I feast on Caesar salad leaving the kids to try out organic sprout salad.Occupied with an array of breads, salads and meat, I barely notice that my little daughter has been eyeing my chair for a while. It is quite a chair, very reminiscent of the Big Boss chair one has seen on television. I strike a deal: the little angel and her Appi will have to finish their main course meal, not leave a morsel unattended. They think for a while, they succumb to the temptation. Ah! The charm of the chair.The main course is a round of traditional butter chicken for me. The girls opt for naan pizza though they are also offered vilayati subz pasta. The naan pizza comes with layers of cream, vegetables and what have you. With eight slices of the rich stuff, the girls cannot stop loving it. Every bite brings a round of ooh-aahs. Relatively, my platter is sedate. It is the good old stuff with less of fusion. I am happy.Time for desserts. Time for makhmali nazakat, vanilla sponge soaked in rabri, and oreo cheese cake.Time to finish off in a hurry. It has been a long evening. Clock has ticked by unnoticed. All of us lost in fusion food, quiet ambience, cheerful company.