http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/A-game-his-own/article14024529.ece

In the midst of the interview, Akshay Kumar tells co-actor Nimrat Kaur, “I told you before the film began that they will score around 340.” Well, cinema and sport are getting so intermingled that you don’t know where one ends and the other begins. The other day the Bollywood Khiladi was playing badminton with Jwala Gutta as the brand ambassador of the sport and today he is talking about Airlift while watching the India-Australia cricket match on television. Again, it is a film where you don’t know where the fact ends and fiction begins.“I like to play characters that are heroic but I also want to do something that is in a realistic space. Here I found both,” says Akshay, setting the ball rolling. “I met the people, the airhostesses, the pilots and the bureaucrats who were part of the evacuation process and it touched me. It makes the heart sink when somebody tells you that within hours whatever he earned in life came to nought. May be it is because my father was in the Army, such situations affect me.” A section of creative people feel that the country is getting intolerant to dissent. Akshay doesn’t agree. “It is an individual opinion. I feel we are tolerant as a nation. There are always two sides of the story. Some people feel the social media is frivolous. I agree in some cases it is, but in many cases youngsters have shown responsibility and brought out success stories. It depends on what you see and experience.”He denies that his presence made director Raja Menon combine the real life characters into Ranjit Katyal, the protagonist. “He was ready with the script for three years. And I don’t mind doing multi-starrers. My next film, Housefull-3, has three main characters and I am not playing all of them,” he smiles.Be it on or off screen, in the last year we have seen the actor’s patriotic side. His support for farmers in distress is well documented and so is his position as the country’s highest celebrity tax payer. “It is just a matter of chance that I got Baby, Gabbar and now Airlift in succession. I felt after reading all these characters, kya aadmi hai (what a man!). I should play him. However, I am not trying to flaunt my patriotic side. Ideally, I like to mix it.”And in Shankar’s Robot 2 he has got that opportunity. After such positivity will he be able to essay a dark character? “Why not? When I did Ajnabee people said the same thing. It was about wife swapping and I ended up winning my first Filmfare Awards for that. They usually don’t consider me good enough for awards,” he says in his trademark self-deprecating way. Akshay says sharing screen space with Rajinikanth is an honour. “It will be an honour to be punched by Rajini Sir. And with him around negativity could never win.” Bound by a contract not to reveal details of the character, Akshay only confirms that he is not undergoing any physical transformation for the role. “I wouldn’t allow that to happen to my body. My schedule will start in March in Chennai.”