http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/A-government-school-established-in-1999-still-lacks-classrooms/article13989536.ece

For the students of Government Lower Primary School at Hemavati Layout in K.R. Pet, cleaning its playground isn’t a punishment, but a part of their curriculum.Very often, the schoolchildren carry broomsticks to the school to clean the ground, where they have to sit and listen to teachers. It is quite common that even teachers join their students in clearing polythene covers, empty bottles and other waste material from the playground.The school, which was established in 1999, still lacks classrooms and other basic infrastructure. Therefore, the students have to attend classes in the open and under trees.The school, which has 77 students, including 44 girls, has only one room, which is used for storing documents and other properties. It has no toilets for boys. There is no computer lab in the school.Drinking waterWhile the students fetch drinking water from a borewell located in a nearby park, the staff members prepare mid-day meals at a Government Higher Primary School, which is about 1.5 km away from lower primary school.According to residents, the school premises has become a hub of illegal activities during nights and on holidays.Some people use the ground for gambling and consuming liquor.They throw empty liquor bottles and cigarette butts everywhere, every day, leaving the task of removing them to students and teachers, said Mahadeva, resident of Hemavati layout.When the Department of Education sanctioned the school at Hemavati layout in 1999, the then officials had assured the villagers that a full-fledged building would be constructed there to ensure proper education to children. But, nothing has happened since then.The school immediately needs a compound, classrooms, a computer room, toilets, drinking water, furniture and a kitchen, a senior official of the Department of Education said.MemorandumsTeachers as well as members of the School Development Management Committee have submitted several memorandums to the Education Department, seeking facilities there. But, none of them has attracted any action from the officials concerned, said another resident of the village.According to the teachers, a few years ago, the school had 190 students and seven teachers. However, this year, the enrolment dipped to 77, including 44 girls and five physically challenged.New buildingWhen The Hindu contacted, Deputy Director of Public Instruction M.D. Shivakumar said, “We have requested the K.R. Pet Town Panchayat to allot a land for constructing classrooms. We will soon initiate steps to develop the school.”Children are often seen carrying broomsticks from their houses to clean garbage on school premisesIt has a single room, which is used for storing documents and important itemsDuring nights and on holidays, the school ground becomes a hub of gambling, liquor consumptionSchool authorities say many memorandums have been submitted to officials seeking infrastructureOfficials of Education Department claim that they have asked K.R. Pet Town Panchayat to allot a land for constructing school building