http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/A-good-laugh/article14019548.ece

At a jam-packed session on the front lawns of the Diggi Palace, a session at the JLF on ‘What Makes South Asians Laugh?’ saw journalist-turned-author Sidin Vadukut, actor Meera Syal, and Suhel Seth in conversation with Sri Lankan writer Ashok Ferry.Talking about her experiences in the hit series, The Kumars at Number 42, Meera says, “It was great. It not only made a lot of Indians laugh, it also showed the British a mirror to how they used to perceive us. Comedy helped me in finding my sort of people. In a series like The Kumars, though we had a script, much of the comedy was spontaneous and improvisation. We just went along with how each celebrity reacted. We could associate with the characters and that made it really funny. With comedy, it is very visible if the audience are not enjoying the show. If people are not laughing, you need to do something different. I feel comedy is universal.”Is the South Asian sense of humour location specific? Suhel says, “Humour is not geography specific but community specific, such as Sardar jokes. In India, we laugh at other people’s misery. Especially so when the Merc next to you has a flat tyre and you are in a Nano.”Sidin quips, “Indians generally have three senses of humour: where they come from, a ‘national’ sense of humour, and international sense of humour, which helps them appreciate shows such as Frasier, Friends and people such as Donald Trump.”He adds, “At times the image of being a funny man is irritating. People tend to laugh even when you say serious things. If you point that out, they stay serious throughout the conversation. People are afraid that if they laugh at my joke or share them, they are endorsing them.”Suhel felt that many stand up comics just rehash the same stuff again and again. “We don’t have intelligent humour. It’s all just slapstick comedy, that is not funny beyond a point. We no longer produce cartoonists such as R.K. Laxman or Shankar.”Meera talked about a stagnation of sorts in the comedy circuit in England, but was hopeful that the Internet will change the situation. “The Americans have come to dominate the comedy scene at this juncture.”Suhel was outraged at the Supreme Court deciding on a ban on Santa-Banta jokes or the recent public interest litigation filed against M.S. Dhoni for appearing as Vishnu on a magazine cover. “It is simply ridiculous. People are afraid of saying things in public, because you do not know who will take umbrage.”