http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/A-gift-from-Myanmar/article13984495.ece

The women of Myanmar are adept at weaving baskets, oriental hats and mats. A long tedious process, even laborious it may be but the women take pride in their traditional craft as they give the peoplea glimpse into their arts and skills.“From time immemorial bamboo is part of every household. In every village and city household utensils made of bamboo are used on a daily basis. Work in bamboo entails hard work but the inner joy and satisfaction that comes after completing each product is immense. This happiness translates into our products. The credit goes to our women for their ability to make baskets and mats with multiple designs. All these goods here are for people with aesthetic taste,” says Ei Ei Htwe, an exhibitor from Myanmar at the annual Dastkari Haat Crafts Bazaar at Dilli Haat.This is the first time that Htwe is showcasing exquisite bamboo products from the Ayeyarwady region of the neighbouring nation. Before embarking on her voyage, she researched about the fortnight long mela before deciding which baskets and mats with multiple designs need to be showcased.“Weaving is an intricate and difficult process but women through years of practice have mastered this art. They work in partnership with the men folk, who procure the material. Bamboo in our country is sweet and soft but on the negative side it easily gets fungus. So we use boric acid and try to make it long lasting,” she says.Another exhibitor Khincho Mya has a knack for exploring gems and other precious and semi-precious material in Northern Myanmar. She is displaying a range of bracelets made of jade and sea shells.Apart from the craftsmanship the unique selling point is that they are economically-priced.“For us procuring raw material is extremely important as it eventually decides the quality of products. After getting raw material, we do the cleaning process followed by colouring.”Myanmar is known for its wide assortment of gems which are aesthetically-showcased in rings, ear rings at the annual India International Trade Fair. While goods at IITF are astronomically priced, at Dilli Haat they are available at affordable rates.Like Afrokhadi, a collaborative venture between Indian artisans and African counterparts, this time too craftsperson from Myanmar and India are working in unison at crafts and skill exchange workshops.“In our endeavour to make indigenous craftspeople as conservationists of Indian heritage, the Samiti is collaborating with Myanmarese artisans to create utility-based, market-friendly products which would be displayed on January 10,” says Jaya Jaitly, founder of Dastkari Haat Samiti.Craftswomen from Myanmar are showcasing and practising shell craft, basketry, mat weaving, handloom textile weaving, hyacinth grass weaving and jewellery.