http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/A-healthy-hygienic-turn-to-pan/article13980771.ece

What are you eating?Pan.This conversation would have never happened if the post-lunch digestive dessert had remained what it was. Instead, the sweet pan that most Hyderbadis eat out of the refrigerator or the bespoke contraption of glass and steel ice box at neighbourhood pan dabbas has been changed into something else!“More and more youngsters are eating pan. And they don’t want their teeth to be stained or spit it out. That is the reason we have stopped applying chuna and katha on the pan,” says Shiva, who has been making pan near Taj Mahal Hotel in Abids for the last 15 years.The snarky ‘sweet pan is for girls’ is now a thing of the past as a new generation of pan eaters savour it with a twist. “When we eat this pan without the chuna and katha, I can chew it for a long time and don’t have to spit it out. The best part is it doesn’t make the mouth and teeth red,” says a young man, as he picks up the packed pan with a cherry on top from the plastic tray fished out of a refrigerator outside a biryani outlet in Himayatnagar.But once in a while, a real pan connoisseur walks in. His mouth red and the betel juice dripping out from his mouth, Kantiah, stands near Moin’s pan shop wedged between two pearl shops near Gulzar Houz waiting patiently as Taher prepares the 10 pans for the day. He doesn’t say anything but Taher begins making the pans. Snip, snip, snip and Taher cuts the leaf from three sides and dips a wooden pestle into the chuna paste and daubs it liberally and then dips a brass spoon into the katha and dabs it and puts pinches of stuff from various small boxes and the pan is ready.Then another man steps up and orders: “Calcutta, 160 chiita, Quimam do chiita, bagar katha, chuna, chhaliya”, and Taher gets to work.Mohammed Maqdoom at the newest Shah Ghouse outlet at Gachibowli makes a mean pan. Tuck it into your mouth and the redolent flavour that has beguiled Indians for centuries spreads in the mouth. The constriction in the throat and chest is no longer there. It is almost like a toffee, albeit, that has the flavour of pan leaf’s sap.In the pre-dawn hours, it’s a different scene at Hyderabad’s Pan Mandi as workers stand around and contractors track the baskets being rolled out of a truck that has just reached from Rajampet in Kadapa. This is one of the biggest wholesale market for pan in Telangana.“Today, the prices are okay and I will make some money. The traders are offering Rs. 550 today per basket,” says M. Brahmiah, a four-acre land holding farmer from Borampadu near Kodur railway station watching his wicker baskets being unloaded. Each of them has a small two-tree alphabet code like: GBP, ISP etc. By 8 a.m., the driver pulls away the truck from inside the market and moves out. The journey that Subbarayudu, the driver, began a day earlier at 4 p.m. in Borampadu when he parked the truck at Kammapalli for farmers to load their baskets keeping a count of them, is now nearly over. Some bring two, some four and some bring dozens of baskets packed with 2,000 sada pan leaves. Subbarayudu gets Rs. 20 per basket for the 11-hour, 500-km trip. He will get the money once he goes back, but now, he steps away to grab a bite of idly at Mahalakshmi Tiffins at Aghapura before he dozes off.“Earlier, the market was much bigger with people from outlying districts coming here to make their purchases. Now, as there are more number of district buses, the farmers are able to send them directly to district headquarters. We supply only to Hyderabad and nearby places,” says Lakshman Rao, in the business for 30 years, running his fingers on a heavy gold necklace.“We moved to this property on October 17, 1961 into a plot of land that was once part of Raja Dhanrajgir’s property before Mutyala Muggu was shot here. It functions only on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, though some of the shops stay open. Vendors come and buy baskets and then distribute them in the city. Earlier, the market was at Moazam Jahi Market and after it got congested, we moved here,” says M. Saibaba, one of the earliest members of the market committee.