http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Thiruvananthapuram/A-hearth-to-heart-connection/article14015835.ece

The Oottupura (kitchen), which feeds scores of people associated with the 56{+t}{+h}State School Arts Festival, at the sprawling Police Training Ground at Thycaud, is a different performance space.Any place with a crowd of such magnitude could have been witness to a lot of chaos, but at the Oottupura, things are starkly different, where thousands of people at a time can casually walk into the food court, with no commotion at all.There is no queue to enter the food court, which has 12 pandals where breakfast, lunch and dinner are served to participants, numbering around 12,000 and a large number of organisers, including teachers, Department officials, volunteers of Student Police Cadets and National Cadet Corps. The pandals altogether can accommodate 3,000 persons at a time. Around 600 teachers drawn from different schools in the capital district are deployed in shifts to serve food.The stoves which were lit the day before the commencement of the festival on January 19 have not been shut out since.24-hour kitchen“The kitchen is alive 24 hours a day. Everything is so systematic that no person visiting the food court was made to wait even for a minute,” said Sreekumar, a teacher with the Government Lower Primary School at Chullimanoor near Nedumangad.Pazhayidom Mohanan Namboothiri, the chief chef who has been part of all the school festivals from 2006, said each arts festival was a learning process in crowd management. “We try to learn from the mistakes and improve. The results are here to see. I have not seen a single queue, even for lunch, when maximum number of people visits the dining hall. People flock the mess till midnight,” he said.The master chef dishes out different menus for breakfast and dinner every day. For the lunch it is rice, with curries, thoran, rasam, pulissery, pickle, and other dishes, varying from day to day.The highlight of the lunch is a different variety of payasam served each day. On January 24, the popular ‘jail chappathi’ will be served. The Education Department has set aside Rs.25 lakh for running the mess.