http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/A-joyless-journey/article14017547.ece

In an early scene, as we are introduced to the Mangano family, we see Jennifer Lawrence’s Joy spotting a yoghurt stain on the carpet of her mother’s room that has gone unnoticed by her mother and grandmother. And before we realise, she’s cleaned it up with the first piece of cloth that she could get her hands on. Just a minute before, we had already heard the word ‘doer’ being used to describe Joy, by her mother, albeit in a slightly mocking way. And here, we get a live sample, through the pettiest of domestic chores.It encapsulates Joy’s spirit, who goes on to become one of America’s most famous businesswomen: whose entrepreneurial acumen is rooted in the basic concerns of a homemaker. She is the inventor of the alliteratively American-named consumer products — Miracle Mop, a lightweight mop with self-wringing cotton that is reusable; and, the Huggable Hangers, ultra-thin hangers that mean more closet space, among other things.It’s an exciting real-life story and fodder for cinema: the journey of a divorced mother of two who lives with her dysfunctional family. She’s the ‘Queen of Home Shopping’; the heights of the great American dream. So what does director David O Russel do with this material? He essentially makes a coming-of-age film: taking us through the whole journey till she gets to the invention of her first product — the mop.The idea of making a comedy-drama out of this seems suited to Russel, who got it right in his previous film American Hustle . This one, however, has turned out different. Its title is somewhat ironic; for most part, Joy lives a thoroughly joyless life. And the film occasionally flirts with absurdity: such as a track where we are let into a soap opera that Joy’s mother is obsessed with. But the film ends up feeling more like a strangely ineffective worn-out drama than a comedy. Joy ’s not bad, per se. But it leaves you feeling so indifferent that it’s almost frustrating.The ensemble appears to be a bunch of quirky characters that never become human enough for us to really care for them. Yes, there are interesting things going on: Joy and her ex-husband Tony (Edgar Ramirez), the voiceover tells us, are the best divorced couple in America. In another nice touch, Joy sits next to her grandmother Mimi (Diane Ladd) during the elderly lady’s own funeral.But they never come together. The film’s focus is Joy. I liked Lawrence’s performance. She doesn’t miss a beat, playing the woman stuck between her family and her personal ambitions. But despite her best efforts, the film feels utterly devoid of energy.When you are already aware of the protagonist’s upward graph, you expect things to get shaken up a bit so that you are surprised and shocked. That just doesn’t happen with Joy.Russel underplays the big dramatic moments — such as Joy’s breakthrough sales pitch on live television. But what’s the point if there is no emotional pay-off? I’m sure he wanted to say something more than the just-be-yourself and follow your dreams, but Joy , sadly, bookends, with a message as clichéd as that.JoyDirector: David O RusselActors: Jennifer Lawrence, Robert De Niro, Bradley Cooper, Édgar Ramírez, Diane LaddGenre: Comedy-DramaRun time: 120 mins