http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/A-laugh-riot-with-%E2%80%98Funny-Side-Up%E2%80%99/article14006817.ece

“…On Sankranti, guys’ dash to their in-laws places to get that festival gift…a car. That’s Andhra style dowry guys…. Wonder why we have only dad’s gift or mummy’s gift! Then you have stickers on cars … my next vehicle is a BMW…er…why not an ambulance?”“…Other day when a lady on a two-wheeler crossed the stop line and the traffic policeman rushed to ‘record’ with this camera, the lady removes her helmet, adjusts her hair, dress and requests him to tag the photo on facebook…We have fb walls now and real walls get painted with political slogans…we all know what we do when see a wall!”“… Whoever invented Twitter is racist, guys…how else can a South Indian tell his full name in the 140 characters limit?” On Friday night on the quaint Coffee Cup café in Sainikpuri is swarming with young people and a few families…well, no one was without a partner and everyone had someone to laugh aloud with amid mouthful of salads, sandwiches, lemonades, et al.LaughterIt’s 8 p.m. and ‘Funny Side Up’ when a talented youthful comedians take turns ensuring the small book café reverberates with laughter for a good one-and-a-half hours. Apart from taking a humorous and sarcastic look on our everyday lives, communities, obsessions, idols and the likes, these guys (no girl yet in the group!) do not spare the gathering either.“Sir, are you married? Yes?! I was wondering…since you both were looking at different directions!” “Sir, you did not take any dowry? Oh! You missed the car…” “Are there any Shah Rukh Khan fans…you know I was watching one of his films and also simultaneously Indian Goats bleats show on the National Geographic!”A gaggle of BITS-Pilani students were the centre of attention for a while: “Five girls and three boys in an engineering college?! Maan…that’s something!” This is only a sample of some crazy jokes from the gang of Saikiran, Avinash Agarwal, Bhavandeep Singh and Mukesh - flying around non-stop keeping everyone smiling or guffawing aloud.Funny Side Up (FSU), the city’s pioneering comic group started by Rajasekhar Mamidanna and also having RohitSwain and Umesh Somani, have been performing at different coffee shops for the last couple of years and appearing at corporate shows and college fests.“Some of us are into this full time and we take care to see we have original jokes. Comic timing can be a natural trait but a comedian can evolve too,” says 34-year-old Saikiran.FSU has also have been featured on NDTV Rising Stars of Comedy and their YouTube video has gone viral.‘Encouraging talent’“We also organise open mikes at Mocha Café in Banjara Hills every Wednesday nights for beginners to test their comic skills,” says Saikiran, who is a riot with a mike in hand.“Apart from the fresh coffee, food, books, paintings, games and live music at our cafe, FSU has certainly livened up our weekend nights, this part of the city” say Varun and Puja Sharma of Coffee Cup.