http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Kochi/A-life-around-the-world-the-heart-anchored-in-Kerala/article14026656.ece

Chandran Nair is a globetrotter in the true sense of the word. While he is not hopping across continents with corporate leadership programmes, he drops in to speak at global summits such as the World Economic Forum. He writes for publications such as The Guardian and The New York Times and is the author of Consumptionomics: Asia’s Role in Reshaping Capitalism and Saving the Planet , a critically acclaimed work.But all said, he is a romantic at heart — one who dreams of settling down along the serene backwaters of Kerala where his roots are.He was not born here. His parents had left Palakkad for Malaysia long before they were married. “Growing up, Kerala was this mythical place of elephants, temples, rice fields and great natural abundance,” says Mr. Nair, who is in the city with a global leaders programme organised by the Global Institute For Tomorrow (GIFT), an independent pan-Asian think tank, which he founded.As he got assimilated into the new society and tasted success, Kerala, for him, remained just that — a myth. As he travelled across the world, he realised the true worth of what he was missing. The first visit 25 years ago has since been followed by several others, including the one three years ago with his siblings to offer prayers for the souls of his departed parents.“The first thing I noticed was the relative friendliness of the people here, and suddenly I could make those connections with my mother’s obsession with being friendly,” he said.He was bowled over by the peaceful co-existence of the three major religions here during these times of cultural, religious, and ethnic strife. He even plans to write an article about how Kerala can be an example to the world.Food and culture are the two other attractions. Savouring the traditional cuisine transports him to his childhood when dosa and chutney, moru curry and fish curry were imports from the faraway mythical land.One thing he is ashamed of and that is his lack of proficiency in Malayalam. While five of his siblings learned the language, the younger three, including him, were not fortunate, as by then English had become the language for success.The Kerala model that is not based on mindless industrialisation, Mr. Nair believes, holds significant lessons for the 21st century. “People here have lived within the limits while maintaining the resources,” he says.But, Mr. Nair, who loves the privilege of remaining a bachelor, wonders whether the land value in Kerala has become too steep to pursue his dream of buying “a small piece of land” here.