http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/letters/A-major-security-lapse/article13984774.ece

The Pathankot attack is part of a series of efforts to thwart peace-building efforts between India and Pakistan (“Sharif dials Modi after NSAs confer,” Jan. 6). It would be fitting for both the Prime Ministers to launch a combined offensive on the training camps of terrorists. Where these terrorists are trained is only too well known. If Pakistan does not cooperate in such an operation, India should target these training camps in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir, with the tacit approval of the international community. We should ensure that our soldiers and civilians do not become sitting ducks.T.S.C.Bose,HyderabadWhen a threat perception looms large from forces across the border, our political leaders spout the rhetoric of giving a fitting reply. But the fact that the terrorists crossed the border and engaged the NSG commandos for over three days exposes our shallow claims and speaks volumes about our complacence in defence preparedness.R. Prabhu Raj,Bengaluru There seems to have been utter confusion in handling the terrorist attack. There are professionals in our defence establishment with rich experience and expertise. They are expected to, in a situation like this, entrust the tasks with the right agencies. If they have failed to do so, it only means that information was not provided on time to the decision-makers. This exposes the serious lacunae in our preparedness to face emergencies of this nature. It shows that experts were not involved in decision-making at the highest level.Our political leaders should encourage a free exchange of views with our military officials to encourage higher standards of professionalism in our defence forces. Any failure to do so would make the safeguarding of our fragile borders a difficult proposition in the days to come.M.V. Nagavender Rao,HyderabadWhen a full-fledged infantry division, besides other Army units, was available at Pathankot or close to the airbase, then what compelled the security agencies to send the NSG from Delhi to fight those terrorists? (“Deploying NSG instead of the Army was a mistake”, Jan. 6) Isn’t it common sense that those nearest to the operation must deal with counter-insurgency operations? It seems as though India has many security and paramilitary forces, but nobody knows who to contact to coordinate with the different forces.Debasish Baruah,Golaghat, Assam