http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/A-man-of-many-questions/article14021328.ece

“I will have to sleep early today. I have to perform a cataract operation on my father-in-law tomorrow,” says ophthalmologist and popular quiz master Navin Jayakumar, with a nervous laugh. “Otherwise, when I have a quiz event coming up, I am usually up till 2.30 a.m., reading up.” Each quiz event usually takes around 80 hours of work, including research, formulating questions, converting them into slides and so on.Now, with three upcoming quizzing events — Un-Seeded Open Quiz by Quiz Foundation of India (of which Navin was a founding member in 1987) this weekend, the Murugappa Kovai Quotient Quiz 2016 the weekend after, and the Cambridge University School quiz the weekend after that — Navin probably has to keep burning the midnight oil. Meanwhile, here are a few tips to crack the trademark foot-long questions from the master himself.What can quiz enthusiasts expect from the new event?This is purely for those who haven’t qualified for the finals in any of the five General Quiz events conducted by the Quiz Foundation of India (QFI) last year. Why? Because over the years, I realised that it is a combination of the top 15 teams that make it to the finals. This event will give others a fair chance to get onto the stage. A whole generation has grown attending the Landmark Quiz (since 1994). Now, I want to focus on the younger crowd, between the age group of 18 and 30. I want the next generation to grow attending a similar annual quiz event like the Landmark Quiz. Also, I want to reboot myself.You did not have a Landmark quiz while growing up; what got you interested?The only quiz event then was the Bournvita Quiz Contest, where the top rankers from each class were selected to attend. The rest of us were not even aware. However, I used to listen to the show by radio host Ameen Sayani on Vividh Bharati every Sunday.The first quiz event which I attended was when I was 12. One of the questions was ‘Who is the Nightingale of India?’ and I answered Lata Mangeshkar. Poor Sarojini Naidu. (laughs)But my stint with quizzing actually started off as a quiz master. I joined Madras Medical College (in the late 70s), and one of my seniors asked me to conduct a quiz event. That was also the time my mother (Saranya Jayakumar), an avid quizzer herself, had started reviving her interest in quizzing after a break. So, she sent me a letter with a set of questions from the events that she attended. I used those.Later, I started hosting the Madras Book Fair quiz. My big break was when historian S Muthiah asked me to host the Madras Quiz (celebrating 350 years of Madras) in 1988. That was followed by the Landmark quiz, and the rest is history.It’s been over 20 years now. Has your style of asking questions changed over the years?Drastically. Just a few days ago, I saw the prelims question paper of the first Landmark Quiz in 1994. It was just one page – 40 questions, all one sentence-long. I started using more audio-visuals later.Is there a sure-shot technique to crack those questions?If you have a phenomenal memory, all you have to do is read a lot of magazines and newspapers. But for common folks, note down every new piece of information you come across, and go over it later. I have four thick diaries of notes right from my college days. I still maintain one.Most people consume news through Facebook and Twitter these days.Yes, news has become more real-time. But, I don’t have a Facebook profile. In fact, I just got a smart phone a few days ago, because my son persuaded me to buy one. I found that it is necessary to be on Whatsapp to receive scanned copies of X-Rays from my radiologist, for calling a cab, or showing my ticket at the airport without getting a printout. Otherwise, my job (9.30 a.m. to 8 p.m.) requires looking into another person’s eyes.Do you get any time to unwind at all?I haven’t had time to touch this poor thing (points at a giant Yamaha. He does play the Forrest Gump soundtrack by Alan Silvestri eventually during the conversation). But I am updated with Game of Thrones, Downton Abbey, TheMan in the High Castle, and am currently watching Broadchurch.Un-Seeded quiz will be held at 9.30 a.m. on January 30 at Narada Gana Sabha Mini Hall. Open to any 3-member team. For details, e-mail qfichennai@gmail.com