http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/A-magazine-for-science-teachers/article14012602.ece

Remember the days when you tried to find an easy way to memorise the elements in the periodic table or understand Newton’s Laws of Motion? The problem is that often, students remain oblivious to the wonders of science. Professor of Science Education Arthur Eisenkraft, one of America’s leading science educators, who is now in Bengaluru, says science teaching needs to be made more relevant to students.To bridge this gap and ignite the minds of middle school science teachers, Azim Premji University will be publishing a biannual science magazine — ‘i wonder…’ — that will be free for teachers.The 109-page inaugural issue, which has a special section on interdisciplinary science, will be launched on Friday by Prof. Arthur. The magazine has different sections that include an interview with a scientist, biography of a scientist, and an article on introducing the concept of nature of science in the school curriculum.Chitra Ravi, one of the editors of the magazine, said they hope the magazine would help middle school science teachers across the country and parents who are home-schooling their children get a fresh perspective on how science and scientists work.She said the aim of the magazine is to help teachers re-engage their curiosity for science so that they are able to pass on their passion to students. “It will also serve as a platform for teachers to share activities and best practices from their classrooms and also discuss ways to innovate science teaching,” said Ramgopal Vallath, co-editor of the magazine.Ms. Ravi said the foundation’s work in schools made them feel the need for quality reading material in science. She, however, clarified that the book is not an academic journal. The book also has introduction to free online content posters, and experiments that could come in handy for science educators.They also plan to come up with Hindi as well Kannada editions shortly.A hard copy of ‘i wonder…’ will be available at Azim Premji Foundation Office and the e-version can be downloaded fromhttp://www.azimpremjiuniversity. edu.in/SitePages/pdf/I-Wonder- Science-Magazine.pdf.The editors also welcome submissions for middle school science teachers and they can write toiwonder.editor@azimpremjifoundation. org.