http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/kozhikode/A-musical-journey-with-Ghulam-Ali/article14004453.ece

: They came in thousands, when the sun was still shining brightly. The night was quite some distance away, and they knew they would have to wait for a few hours. But, they were willing to wait.“It is not every night that you get an opportunity to listen to the greatest living Ghazal singer. And Ghulam Ali did not disappoint them. When the Pakistani singer came on to the stage at the Swapna Nagari, at about 7.30 p.m., the crowd — about15,000 of them — erupted in joy. If they feared the ageing maestro may sing only a couple of songs and leave the rest to the other singers, including his son Amir Ghulam Ali, those fears proved misplaced.Ghulam Ali, who was returning to the city where he had performed in 2006, sang many of his popular songs. He began with Teri baaten hi sunane aaye ... and followed it up with Kaisi chali hai...Then he sang Hum tere shehar mein aaye hai musafir... and Main nazar se pee raha hoon... Before long, he rendered his first big of the night — Hum ko kiske gham ne maara... And the crowd loved it.They loved it even more when he returned to the stage after taking a brief break to sing Chupke Chupke raat din... , one of the most popular Ghazals of all time. He was given melodious company for that song by his son. Next came another of his greatest hits, Hungama hai kyon barpa... , much to the delight of the audience.At 75, Ghulam Ali may no longer be at his peak, but the magic is still very much there in his voice.The short Hindustani classical pieces presented at the start of the show by Pandit Viswanath also added to the charm of the night. “In my 40 years as a performing musician, I have never seen as great a crowd as this,” he said.It was another compliment to a city that is known for its love of music. The organisers, headed by Swaralaya, had also wanted this tour of Kerala by Ghulam Ali as a statement against political intolerance. Political outfits like Shiv Sena had forced the cancellation of some of his concerts. A large number of political and cultural leaders, including Ministers M.K. Muneer and A.P. Anil Kumar, MP M.K. Raghavan, MLAs M.A. Baby, Elamarom Kareem and A. Pradeep Kumar and Mayor V.K.C. Mammed Koya, author M.T. Vasudevan Nair and lyricist Kaithapram Damodaran Namboothiri, were there to greet Ghulam Ali.