http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/A-new-stage-for-theatre/article13999538.ece

In a unique move, ZEEL (Zee Entertainment Enterprises Limited), has decided to foray into theatre production, becoming the first Indian Media and Entertainment Company to do so.The idea, says Shailja Kejriwal, Chief Creative Special Projects at ZEEL, began with an in-house brainstorming session. “Any broadcaster is always looking for new things to do. That’s how we began Zee Zindagi”. So, while we were brainstorming internally, our CEO and MD Punit Goenka and I talked about how we are always getting stuff from outside, importing programmes from abroad and making them in Hindi. This time, we wanted to bring something that was our own. That is when I thought of theatre. Today, while theatre has meaningful, strong content, due to lack of patronage and infrastructure, it reaches very few people. So while theatre tells stories that movies and television programmes don’t, it gets left behind.” Kejriwal stresses that in a country with a strong theatrical tradition, the idea made sense. “As a broadcaster, I felt that it was also our responsibility to highlight what is our own, but is probably getting lost.”With this, ZEEL decided to launch theatre as its new vertical. Tying up with stalwarts from stage, well known directors, actors and stage artists from behind the scenes, ZEE Theatre began to get a plan in place. It is now looking to produce over 100 plays in the next 3 years, and make the plays available not just on ground in the traditional performance space, but also as content you can watch on air, the Internet, TV and even the big screen.“Since we are looking at this as a new vertical, we aren’t trying to put it on TV immediately. The first thing is, any vertical requires investment. And here, we need to put in that investment to get the plays ground ready.” This includes, Kejriwal tells us, identifying plays with strong, meaningful content, and directors and actors with a background in theatre. “We have cast for the play keeping in mind that we will also be screening it on air, so some of the actors are known. But we have made sure that each and every one of them has a theatre background.”The list of the plays ZEE Theatre has tied up with so far is an impressive one, striking in both content and personalities. There is “Piya Behrupiya”, a nautanki style adaptation of Shakespeare’s “Twelfth Night”, directed by Atul Kumar, “Rudali”, which brings to life Mahashweta Devi’s immortal story, “Sandhya Chhaya”, written by Jaywant Dalvi, “30 Days in September”, written and directed by Mahesh Dattani and “Ma Retire Hoti Hai”, starring Rima Lagoo. “Each and every one of the plays selected has a social message. Once they are ground ready, we also want to take these plays to schools and colleges. For example, ‘30 days in September’ talks about domestic child abuse. This is something so powerful and important, but you don’t have television or films that deal with this subject. ‘Ma Retire Hoti Hai’ looks at the importance of the work that a woman does at home. ‘Piya Behrupiya’ has been selected to remember the beautiful nautanki style theatre that is getting lost.”The exciting thing, Kejriwal adds, is the new format that emerges by recording an on ground theatre performance in a way that it becomes equally consumable on air. “You can’t shoot theatre the way you’ll shoot movies. It requires to be perfected with days of rehearsals. And then, we have a special staging for the recording. The style of filming is different too. The filming director has to be completely tuned into what is happening on ground. So the filming director and theatre director have to work in tandem, because the theatre director does the blocking from the viewpoint of the on ground audience, but doesn’t necessarily understand what will be required while filming. Even the light director on stage needs to work with the cinematographer.” These collaborations, Kejriwal says, will gives rise to a new format altogether.To begin with, the idea took time to find supporters in the theatre fraternity. “There was apprehension. It took me practically one year to talk to people and explain to them what we are trying to do. These people are stalwarts and they have kept theatre alive. They weren’t sure about taking theatre to mass media, on air.” They asked the same question that I ask Kejriwal now — if you make theatre available on the internet and television, would anyone come for the ground performances? “It’s a different high when you watch a match in a stadium, even though it’s available on tv. We still go to watch movies in the theatre, when we could just download and stream it on our laptops”, she says.What has especially sold the idea is that it will be providing the due patronage to theatre artistes, and giving them an opportunity to make their careers sustainable. “What we are doing, and I am grateful to Punit for this, is that we are paying the artistes, the cast and crew, not just for filming, but also for every rehearsal and every on ground performance separately.It a way to not just get great content, but also give back to the theatre community. It is a win-win situation for all.”So far, ZEE Theatre has 17 to 18 plays ground ready, and the filming is in process. “By the start of the next fiscal, we start rolling it out. We will go on ground and digital first, and then take it to the screen.”