http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/A-new-role-for-Anshuman-Jha/article13994026.ece

ollywood is notorious for stereotyping actors into particular characters. Luckily, not so for young actor Anshuman Jha. “In my debut film, Love Sex aur Dhoka, I had played a low-caste boy who gets killed for falling in love with a Brahmin girl. In Chauranga, I play an uptight Brahmin man who thinks he owns the village. He is the next in line to occupy the throne, so to speak. This switch from playing the oppressed one to the oppressor was personally very exciting for me,” says Jha, who was last seen in X: Past is Present.Chauranga is set in a village in Jharkhand, a milieu that is familiar to Bikas Mishra, the director of the film, as well as Jha. The latter’s maternal family lives in Darbhanga in Bihar, and he spent many childhood vacations at his grandmother’s home there.“The people you will see in Chauranga are the kind of people Bikas and I have met. It is a deeply patriarchal system. Yes, the kind of India you see in the film does exist even if you have not witnessed it. Here is a story inspired by a newspaper article, and it wants to draw your attention to the sexism and casteism that is rampant even today,” says Jha.Apart from the script that caught his attention, Jha was also excited by the prospect of working with Onir, co-producer of the film. Though Onir did not direct this film, he was a hands-on producer. This gave Jha the opportunity to learn from a filmmaker whose work ( My Brother Nikhil and I Am) he has admired.“There is no hero or heroine in the film.”Jha says, “The village really is the hero. That is a sign of good cinema. Your script is what takes precedence. There isn’t too much talking in the film. And for me, the most magical cinematic moments are those where nothing is spoken.”A Delhi boy who moved to Mumbai to pursue his acting career, Jha recalls how he had been told by his parents that he could switch cities only if he scored well enough to secure admission at Mumbai’s prestigious St Xavier’s College. He studied hard, and his dream to move to Celluloid City came true.Having found a large measure of appreciation for his acting talent, Jha is keen on balancing his work in films and theatre. Among his forthcoming films are Pradeep Singrole’s Robinhood Ke Pote and Rakesh Rawat’s Andher Manch.“Cinema is a director’s medium while theatre is an actor’s medium. Since I began with theatre, it is very close to my heart. I am working on a Bollywood musical for Kingdom of Dreams in Gurgaon. It is a play called Jhumroo that is all about Kishore Kumar.” He plays the role of Jhumroo, a boy who is attracted to a girl who loves singers.The problem is that Jhumroo is not particularly proficient at singing. By a strange twist of fate, the soul of Kishore Kumar enters his body. It is a role that allows Jha to do what he has not being doing in his films. He gets to sing, dance, and perform martial arts.“All these perceptions about what kind of actor you are, are just perceptions. If you are a good actor, you should be able to do any kind of role. That is what your training is all about. Craft is extremely important to me. But, being an outsider, there are a certain number of opportunities that come my way. I pick the best from what is available,” he says.(Chintan Girish Modi is a freelance writer)