http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/A-pond-that-creates-ripples-in-capital-village/article13989993.ece

For the villagers of Mandadam in Amaravati, a pond is close to their hearts, for it maintains the groundwater level, provides fish, besides adding to the scenic beauty of the place.Situated 30-odd acres, the pond is a topic of discussion, as gossips are doing rounds despite the master plan of the Capital Region Development Authority (CRDA) stating that water bodies both in the seed capital and capital city area will not be disturbed.Some are of the view that it will be levelled for development works, while some feel a swanky bus depot will come up there.Though their utterances have no clarity and credibility, rumours like these are regularly emerging in different dimensions in the village. “This is where the CRDA has failed and is failing. They should send their officials to villages and conduct meetings to quell apprehensions,” felt Arvinda Raju, a local businessman.“The small body of still water formed naturally, thanks to the several government programmes such as Paniki ahara pathakam (food for work), has enhanced its depth. It was once used by the washer men community, and now, the panchayat has auctioned it out for fishing,” says Arvinda Raju.He also said that the pond gathered water from nearby farm lands and drains. “Very rarely the pond gets dried up. The pond is full during monsoon and rainy season. May be it can be put to use for better purpose during the capital formation,” feels Krishnam Raju, a businessman.The pond, as in the case of any water body, witnessed gradual encroachment as the village began to grow.“The authorities issued ‘B’ forms in 1969 and later in 1984 regularising the residential structures. It is time the encroachment was curbed. Otherwise the nature’s bounty will vanish in thin air,” predicts Krishnam Raju.Many locals expressed their gratitude to the pond for increasing the ground water levels and helping them while they met with fire mishaps.“The water in the pond always comes to our help when fire broke out in the village. We used to draw water to douse the flames,” recalls Aditya Prasad, a local farmer.