http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Thiruvananthapuram/A-painful-wait-for-promised-aid/article14020757.ece

Seventeen days after their lives turned topsy-turvy, many of them losing their dear ones, some their limbs and some yet to regain consciousness, the victims of the Tirunelveli bus accident are now facing another problem in the form of rising treatment costs. Some of them have alleged that help promised by the government is yet to reach them.Though the district administration has denied the charges of neglect, the condition of several of the victims is tough to ignore. The condition of Raju Avarachan’s family is an example. Raju is yet to gain consciousness, his left hand has been amputated, and he has severe head and kidney injuries and multiple rib fractures. His wife Jeni Raju lost her right ear, has fractures on her spinal cord, and multiple fractures on her left hand.Their four-year-old daughter Ann Evelyn has had both her legs and one hand amputated. According to an official release, the district administration had got the SUT Hospital administration to cut their treatment bill from Rs.19.29 lakh to Rs.17.55 lakh. An order to this effect was issued, with the ‘rest of the expenses to be borne by the government,’ the release said.However, another victim, Helen of Poovar, who had both her hands amputated, has a different story to tell. According to her husband Hillary, who also sustained injuries, they are yet to get any money from the government, and no government official has visited them so far.“She lost her left hand on the spot and the right one was amputated at the MCH. We are shelling out money for medicines and other expenses. No official has enquired about us so far,” he said, adding that it was doubtful whether he, a construction worker in the Gulf, would be able to return to work. The couple have three daughters and Helen now requires full-time assistance. Hence, the governmental assistance would have to continue beyond treatment expenses. The condition of the other victims too is not different.The list of amputees from Thiruvananthapuram also includes Shabana, wife of Anwar, who had her left hand amputated. Her spinal cord is fractured. The district administration’s statement on Monday states that the government had sanctioned Rs.5,000 for the injured immediately after the accident and that the government would bear all treatment expenses of the injured.District administration denies charges of neglectSays it will bear all treatment expenses