http://www.thehindu.com/business/A-predictable-tax-regime-is-a-must-for-private-sector/article13984514.ece

Ambuja Neotia group Chairman, Harshavardhan Neotia, who recently took over as the President of industry body FICCI, feels the private sector would only return to investment mode next year, as several stalled projects have turned unviable and firms are sitting on excess capacities. Mr. Neotia told The Hindu that the policy paralysis and the last mile clearances such as environment nods that held up projects under the UPA have been resolved, but tax predictability still remains a statement of intent. Edited excerpts:Is the economy out of the woods yet?Industry was going through a period of slow growth, added to which was the problem of policy paralysis and problems in last-mile clearances such as land acquisition and green nods that led to projects getting stuck. This government has removed many of those bottlenecks. Projects that have become unviable due to cost over-runs and the changed economic scenario of lower growth, continue to fester. So the regulatory environment has moved forward, but the economic problem remains.If projects were built on time with reasonable debt leverage, they wouldn’t have run into such problems. But those who were disproportionately leveraged are struggling.When this government came on a mandate of development, we had said new initiatives would take fruit in 18 to 24 months now. We are in that zone now.When will the private sector start investing again?Right now, most companies have stretched balance sheets, cash flows are not good, so investment from private sector would take time.Most companies had built capacities on expectation of 8 per cent growth, which fell to 5 per cent – so there is an excess capacity. I hope that most of them would get into investment mode by next year as and when they reach 90 per cent utilisation of their capacities.So the immediate fillip to the economy has to come from public investments. That will put money into the system, people getting wages, contractors getting projects. In November, bitumen offtake was better, which indicates that there are early signs of such investments hitting the ground. We will see more results this year.China remains a worry, especially for India due to the possibility of cheaper imports disrupting our markets, as we already see in steel and other metals. Such global headwinds could slightly slow us down, though we will still grow. Even 7 per cent growth is not bad in today’s world. We certainly see it moving to 8 per cent, though I am not sure it will happen this year itself.What should the government focus on this year as it nears the middle of its term?In areas like transparency, fair allocation of natural resources, ease of doing business, work has begun, though some things may remain to be done. But all of that doesn’t translate into an instant solution. Maybe in two years, we can reach the 100 mark on the World Bank’s Ease of Doing Business ranking (from the present 130th rank).We would like a more predictable tax regime, as the government has already declared such intentions, and a clear plan to reduce tax rates with the removal of subsidies. Companies who have invested earlier on basis of tax exemptions shouldn’t face a guillotine withdrawal, should be a gradual process that helps them plan better.Do commodity sectors like metals and minerals need more support?The government should look at some specific sectors where the global changes have skewed market forces. So safeguards would be needed.Beyond the Goods and Services Tax, do we need a fresh approach to legislative reforms like land acquisition and labour laws?It was wise for the government to leave land to the states, as the central law can only be recommendatory in nature. Every state must compete and would understand the need for a balance between populist and progressive approaches. For Labour reforms, states have been moving some reforms on their own. But you will have to build some form of political consensus.The interesting thing is the new generation of workers are not particularly taken in by the labour union movement of the 1970s and 1980s. Labour reforms remain contentious, but unions’ ability to disrupt has come down.