http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/A-photo-a-day-keeps-boredom-away/article14014001.ece

There’s something about new years that prompts everyone to make resolutions or start something new. If yours is to improve your photography skills or push yourself creatively, one of the best ways to do this is through a 365 Project.What is a 365 Project?It’s a commitment to take a photo, every day, for a whole year. Although it may sound simple, it will have a lasting impact on your skills as a photographer, and will challenge you creatively like never before.You can even take it one step further, and join an online community where you can post your daily photos. This will help keep you accountable and motivated. It’s also a great source of encouragement and appreciation, not to mention a good pool of challenges, ideas, inspiration and themes. You can find 365 Project-specific websites and communities, Flickr and Facebook groups, to post your daily photos.Why take a photo a day?The best reason to take a daily photo is because it helps you to develop a closer relationship with your camera. Once you make a commitment to taking a photo every single day, you will be forced to experiment with your technique, lighting, composition and subjects. You will have to get creative, to push your ideas, and you might also find yourself taking the kind of photos you normally wouldn’t — thereby getting out of your comfort zone.365 days, 365 opportunitiesWhen you know you have to take a photo every day, you’ll find opportunities where you’ve never looked before. You’ll become more observant and notice small things through a photographer’s lens. Sometimes, you might even get desperate to take a photo, late at night or in unusual situations. These instances could result in your most creative shots. There are a lot of great photographic opportunities out there, and if you’re committed to taking a photo a day, you’re more likely to click that perfect shot.Tips to get startedThere’s no rule that says you have to start only on the first of January — you can start a 365 Project any day of the year, just as long as you keep it going for a whole year.Make sure you set aside some time every day to take your daily photo — postponing or taking two photos the next day doesn’t cut it. This way, you’ll hold yourself accountable every single day.Don’t worry about the type of camera, lens or equipment you have. The most important thing is to shoot every day.One of the best things about a 365 Project is that it serves as a visual diary for your entire year. I’ve done two and it brings back great memories every time I look at them. Another great twist on a project 365 is a One Second A Day video project, where you shoot a one-second video every single day. I recommend the 1SE app for both iOS and android to do this. So, start going with your photo a day, and I hope you have a great time clicking away, all year long.