http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/A-platform-to-boost-innovative-ideas/article14002584.ece

If one has good intention, it’s easy to create resources out of nothing and do good to others, says a government science teacher, V. Gurunadha Rao, who came up with an innovative idea on rangoli competition.Gathering about 120 students of Class VI to X of Zilla Parishad Secondary School at Kambhalapally village, he conducted a ‘science rangoli’ competition where students were asked to draw science objects such as rockets, mathematical equation and objects from physics, biology and others.Some students drew respiratory system while others electroplating. Some used rangoli colours and drew human respiratory system while others showed how rocket functions. The students also came up with a colourful picture of a cell and its parts.School headmaster M. Srinivsulu said for the first time such a competition was organised at the school adding that it’s a platform for students to showcase their talent. The drawings were put on display at an exhibition on the school premises.The competition was organised to bring out the hidden talent of students and also to focus on creating more awareness on science, technology and engineering, he added. Stressing the novelty of the competition, science teacher Mr. Gurunadha Rao said when science is taught out of context and seems irrelevant to students’ lives, many lose interest. The purpose of the competition was to spread awareness about the innovative scientific culture among students. He appealed to them to think scientifically and develop innovative ideas. With innovative ideas, revolutionary changes can be achieved, he said.Sumalika, a 7th grade student whose drawings were put on display, said, “I like to draw, hence I took part in the science rangoli competition. I want to learn from everyone present here on how to paint and draw on ground.”Class 9th student Parameshwar said he wanted to polish his skills and the exhibition helped him greatly. “This way, I can express myself freely,” he said.The District Science Officer, Ch. Keshawa Rao, along with other educationalists and science lovers praised the efforts of the school teachers.