http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/A-pall-of-gloom-descends-on-NSG-commando-Niranjan%E2%80%99s-house/article13980703.ece

A pall of gloom descended on this house on Sunday afternoon as the news of the death of their son Lt. Col. Niranjan E. Kumar, NSG commando, hit them. Lt. Col. Niranjan Kumar (35), who was leading a bomb disposal squad, was killed in Pathankot, Punjab, on Sunday.While the family in the city was initially conveyed that he had sustained injuries, the hope was short-lived for the commando’s septuagenarian father, K. Shivarajan. Sharath Kumar, the elder son of Mr. Shivarajan, an Air Force officer based out of New Delhi, rushed to Pathankot and identified the body of his younger brother, dashing all hopes of the family.All that was left of Lt. Col. Niranjan Kumar’s memories was the last time he spoke to his father and family members on Friday night over the telephone. “He spoke to all of us that night. He was calm and did not tell us anything about his travel to Pathankot. Now we realise, he made that call to speak to us before going for the operation that eventually took his life,” said Bhagyalakshmi E. Kumar, his elder sister. Mr. Shivarajan was inconsolable.While Mr. Shivarajan and other family members stay at Dodda Bommasandra in the city, Lt. Col. Niranjan Kumar’s and Mr. Sharath Kumar’s families live in New Delhi as the two were posted there. Mr. Sharath Kumar, Lt. Col. Niranjan Kumar’s wife, Radhika K.J., a dentist, and their 18-month-old daughter accompanied the body to Bengaluru.The New Year too was not without anxious moments for the family and Lt. Col. Niranjan Kumar. “His daughter, Vismaya, suffered a head injury after she fell down from a cot on the New Year’s Eve. His mother-in-law rushed to New Delhi to take care of the child. He loved his daughter very much,” said Jaya, Lt. Col. Niranjan’s aunt.E.K. Lily, a neighbour of the family, said, “The family came to this house 12 years ago, when Niranjan was a young boy and had lost his mother. He was always adventurous and the two brothers joined the armed forces as a passion.”Mr. Shivarajan, a former employee of Bharath Electronics Ltd., shifted to the house after his first wife’s death, sources said.Neighbours from the locality and former BEL employees were visiting the family till late in the night on Sunday.