http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Visakhapatnam/A-palette-of-silken-robes-in-newer-shades/article13980568.ece

: There are these striking hues in varied widths of zari edging.Some saris come with mulberry thread used for the warp and tussar silk for the weft and a few come with a combination of kosa plus mulberry silk yarns. A patlipallu and a contrast blouse add a touch of freshness to an otherwise bland Kancheepuram sari and the list seems to be endless.A palette of silken garbs cast a spell with a warm glow of elegant colour combination and graceful designs at the eight-day exhibition ‘Silk Mark Expo-2016’ presented by Silk Mark Organisation of India (SMOI), Central Silk Board under Ministry of Textiles, that began on Sunday.Those who like to experiment with a fusion of silk saris in unusual contrasts this festive season, the fair offers a variety of choices. There has been a steady stream of visitors coming to the venue.Live demo“Quality of silk is something which one can look forward to here. Moreover, browsing through diverse silk products from a dozen States turns out to be an added advantage,” says Akruthi, a shopper who came to the exhibition. A team of SMOI representatives were seen giving a live demo on how to differentiate between original silk and a fake one.Those who identified authentic silk walked away with surprise gifts. “In majority of cases, it is an arduous exercise to spot a duplicate silk sari. Besides providing a shopping experience, education on identifying between genuine and duplicate silk material is made available. The goal is to create awareness on authenticity and encourage people to invest in quality silk,” said T.V. Maruthi, chairman of SMOI.Light-weight Banarasi saris from Varanasi, hand-woven Mulberry silk from Rajkot, Uppada silk with hand-painted pallu , jangla sari, easy-to-carry pure silk saris, silk kurtis, dupattas, Pochampalli saris in contemporary designs, a range of trendy bags, clutches and sling bags and raw silk shirts for men in bright and subtle shades form a part of the 45 stalls put up at the fair. Apart from a silk mark label with a typical hologram and a unique serial number, the products come with a discount of 10 to 20 per cent.The expo will be on till January 10 at YMCAbetween 10 a.m. to 9 p.m.