http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/A-ringside-view/article14024657.ece

After a hard day shooting a sports film, that too a bilingual, Sudha Kongara would head home. And, cook. “I would reach around 9.30 and then cook a meal with three dishes. That’s my way of de-stressing. Cooking is my vice,” laughs the director of what promises to be a hard-hitting sports film. Starring Madhavan and Ritika Singh in the lead, it releases today in Tamil and Hindi ( Saala Khadoos).Sudha likes to pack her life with interesting things. “I’d love to take up organic vegetable gardening, do anything that involves learning,” she adds.It was this learning that drew her to her film’s theme — boxing. “Chennai used to be the boxing capital once. Girls boxed here. I wanted to know why women took up this contact sport, that too, when you don’t hear of people making money in it,” says Sudha. Years of intense research resulted in a film that celebrates the underdog.Making the film was not without its share of difficulties, but Sudha says she enjoyed the journey and the process of getting into that phase. “You are initially uncomfortable, and then discover something new to hook you.”Shooting for the bilingual was nothing short of making two whole films. “We shot back to back. But there are subtle rhythm changes in the Hindi and Tamil versions. We edited Saala Khadoos first, and took a break before we began work on Irudhi Suttru. Then, I fell in love with the film, all over again.”The director is delighted that Madhavan, her hero, adopted the film and helped bring on board the wizard called Rajkumar Hirani. “This, when I did not have the backing of a husband or godfather. He had complete faith in the script.”So, who’s Sudha’s favourite director? “I used to be a huge fan of Francis Ford Coppola. I love Aparna Sen. I’ve watched 36 Chowringhee Lane too many times to count… but my all-time favourite is Mani Ratnam. I derive inspiration and absorb from all these influences. That’s why everything attracts me — my next can be a romcom, a road trip, a lilting love story… absolutely anything.”