http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/fashion/A-rainbow-of-colours/article13995910.ece

Strand upon strand of jasmine flowers, shimmery high heels, and models sporting amazing blouses that gave us goals for 2016 — Palam Silks’ First Look fashion show that was recently held at the Ballroom in Taj Coromandel featured all this and more. The show gave a sneak peek into what customers could expect from the popular pattu sari shop in the coming year.The 13-year-old brand, founded by Jayashree Ravi, is entering a new phase, as her daughters Sunita and Vineeta are now involved in both the business and design aspects. “They’re young, and know what their generation would like to wear. When they work with that perspective, we get fresher ideas and collections. They are also learning how to translate their designs in ways that will work on the saris, and explain it to the weavers; this can be a challenge,” explains Jayashree.The store plans to feature a new theme each month: floral blooms in January, ruby-red romance in February, Holi in March, mango season in April, suns of summer in May, back to school in June, monsoon in July, Independence Day in August, falling flora in November and Christmas in December. September and October will be taken over byDeepavali collections.The predominant colours in the collections are myriad shades of pink, blue and orangey-reds. Most of the borders are quite broad, although in previous collections, Palam had featured saris with no borders, which proved to be very popular. Temple and intricate zari borders are the order of the day, as are large floral designs. There were an equal number of elegant, understated designs on the ramp as well. Saris with contrasting pleats and multi-coloured checks made their presence felt. The finale showcased their muhurtam collection, in non-traditional greens, blues and deep purples, embellished with zari work.As for the blouses, they were bold in both colour and design, and clearly, long and puff sleeves are the in thing. Jayashree says, “We do not feature any of the blouses that come with the sari. The show is all about giving the customers an idea of how they can wear their sari differently, and change the look drastically by just pairing it with a funky blouse. At the same time, we tell the stylist to stick to the traditional draping styles so that it showcases how the sari will look when worn the way most women would.”Palam Silks is located at Mylapore, Anna Nagar and T. Nagar in Chennai, and Jayanagar in Bangalore.