http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/A-rich-slice-of-life/article14024729.ece

Characters of R.K. Narayan’s novel “The English Teacher” came alive on stage when a play bearing the same name was staged at Akshara Theatre in New Delhi. Written in 1945, the play was directed by Anasuya Vaidya and ran for four consecutive days recently.The play was performed in English and was essentially an autobiographical account of R.K. Narayan’s own experiences.There are two plots which run parallel to each other. In one of them, R.K. Narayan, enacted by Sunit Tandon, is writing a letter to his granddaughter and narrating the happenings, while the second plot, with Krishna as the protagonist, revolves around his life.The play opens with R.K. Narayan, played by Rakesh Palisetty, sitting in a Manhattan cafe and writing a letter to his granddaughter in India. In the extensive letter, he documents his journey. The writing is interrupted by a waitress and a prolonged discussion on the colour of coffee follows.Krishna, is an English teacher at Albert Mission College. He is on a quest to attain inner peace. After living a mundane existence all alone, Krishna begins to enjoy life when his wife Susila (Nisa Shetty) and daughter Leela come to live with him.Susila is an integral part of his existence and of the play.Krishna, a hopeless romantic, loves writing poetry. Sushila is his phantom of delight. Susila succumbs to typhoid in the first half of the play and dies. Henceforth we see a broken Krishna. All he is left with is their daughter, Leela.Theatre has been Anasuya’s childhood love. With a largely young cast here, the play evokes poignantly intense feelings when we see a sobbing Krishna on stage. While the play opens on a light note, gradually it moves towards tragedy and its denouement leaves the protagonist spiritually enlightened.After his wife’s demise, Krishna gets a letter from a stranger who claims to have been in touch with his dead wife and wants to communicate with him.Thus begins Krishna’s journey towards enlightenment. Susila and the stranger introduce him to the spiritual world which transforms Krishna drastically.An unusual love story about perennial love, the play is set in two different time and geographical zones.On one hand it portrays New York of early ’60s and the other it brings back Mysore of mid-40s.Speckled with tragedy and humour, the play gave the audience a slice of life of these two periods of the last century.