http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/A-routine-story-of-a-do-gooder/article14001198.ece

Balakrishna is the boss when it comes to playing to the masses, and if it is his 99th film, there is bound to be great fanfare associated with it. Sriwass comes very close to director Boyapati Sreenivas in understanding what suits Balakrishna the most and how his audience would like to see him. He stays away from making the hero overdramatic and instead, intersperses the story with minimalistic comedy. He doesn’t bring in any freshness or experiment in any angle lest it backfire. The first half of Dictator has a tight and entertaining script, but the director didn’t have enough strong content to drag it till the last; so he just focuses on what is good for the hero and chisels both the roles played by Balakrishna with utmost care.He introduces Balakrishna as a simpleton Chandu working in a supermarket who comes to the rescue of an aspiring actor (Sonal Chauhan) whose brother is a witness to the murder of a minister’s son. As this plot reaches a logical end, Chandu, post interval, is shown as a filthy rich man who marries his employee Katyayani (Anjali). Katyayani’s story is built into the plot’s provenance.Balakrishna is definitely not a young man, but he shows agility in his dance and has given in to the director by toning down the rhetoric on his lineage. Bereft of pomposity, his dialogues confine themselves to the character ‘dictator’ that he plays later in the story. There is a son-in-law to a woman in Delhi played by Rati Agnihotri. As the plot thickens, there are plenty of fights, in fact a lot more than you can digest. Rest of the villains and support characters pale in comparison to Balakrishna, especially when he plays two kinds of roles. Both the female leads bring enough glamour to the screen. Cinematography and music are good. Dialogues sparkle sporadically.The tried and a tested script passes muster. It is a movie meant for the fans who go hysterical on seeing their hero who is made to look different and talk differently. Dictator is a film for the fans, it will not disappoint them.– Y. Sunita ChowdharyDictatorCast: Balakrishna, Anjali, Sonal ChauhanDirection: SriwassMusic: Thaman