http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/entertainment/A-reluctant-rebel/article14009964.ece

You took a two-year break before Saala Khadoos for a soul-searching trip to experience life as a common man. How did it help you get into the role?It was enlightening: standing in queue, travelling in crowded trains or knowing the prices of atta and daal. It is also good to know you can survive all this. After I got the script, I was sure I wanted to look like a boxer, not somebody who was trying hard to be a fighter. I went to Los Angeles to train like a boxer. I built 18.5 inch biceps. But I also went camping in the forests near Naperville in Chicago during summer. Then I took hiking trips in Canada to the Rocky mountains, went around Slave Lake, went down to Jasper National Park just before reaching Vancouver. I grew a beard, so no one recognised me. I trekked on the winding roads, stayed there. I learned to ride a horse and all the survival instincts you need in the forests. The soul searching per se was the catalyst for my transition from the lover-boy to a man-of-the-world.How similar is Saala Khadoos to a typical sports movie?Any sports movie has a coach in it who’s a ‘khadoos’, a reluctant boxer who is a bit of a rebel and together, they find a way. There is no sports movie that doesn’t follow the template. But that’s about the only similarity Saala Khadoos has with other movies of the genre.You roped in Raju Hirani to produce the film, and it took you four years to finish…It’s something I always wanted to do: build a body for the sake of a film and at the same time, be part of a story that I want to be a part of. The two came together in Saala Khadoos. There were complications. We needed a 17-year-old girl who knew how to box, wanted to act and had parents who would allow her to act. Ritika Chopra, in that sense, was a Godsend. Initially, I was hesitant to approach Raju because I didn’t want to impose on him but one night, I just landed up at his house. And the film picked up momentum since that day.Tanu Weds Manu Returns (2014) was a huge hit. You have American zombie movie Night of the Living Dead: Darkest Dawn coming. What have you signed after Saala Khadoos ?I don’t have anything else. I have always been choosy. Which idiot will otherwise do 11 films in 15 years? But I also know my limitations that I hide behind the tag of being choosy. What I can do, nobody in the industry can do better than me. But I am also limited in many ways.Are you referring to Jodi Breakers (2012) opposite Bipasha Basu where you looked overweight and uneasy in the dance sequence?I don’t think I have the ability to entice people with my dance. Someone like Hrithik Roshan would ace it. It’s the kind of stuff that’s beyond my reach. Only a Kamal Haasan can do everything.