http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/sport/A-riveting-first-day%E2%80%99s-play/article14008109.ece

Accustomed to post humongous totals and set stiff targets, the Mumbai Under-19 team flattered to deceive on the first day of the Cooch Behar Trophy final against Uttar Pradesh at the Sachin Tendulkar Gymkhana, Kandivali on Tuesday.The home team’s display had two parts to it. The likes of left-hander and captain Shams Mulani (56, 166 min, 102b, 3x4, 3x6) and Onkar Jadhav (53, 93 min, 80b, 6x4, 1x6) sent the pulse racing with some authentic strokes and bold shots, while opener Hardik Tamore (76, 202 min, 142b, 11x4, 1x6) dropped anchor with a stoical defence. The extraordinarily talented Prithvi Shaw showed the full face of the bat while dominating the first hour, before a good ball cut short his innings and left-arm spinner Sidak Singh threw his wrists at everything in a show of counterattack.Those who got their eye in ought to have proceeded to make a big score in conditions at the suburban venue that were balmy and with the ball coming onto the bat as the day progressed. But Uttar Pradesh, under the leadership of the tall opener, Shivam Chaudhary, came up with an excellent thrust through its seamer Harsh Vardhan, who showed lot of energy and ambition to subdue the home team’s top-order batsmen. He was ably assisted by seamer Vineet Panwar and left-arm spinners Trishal Trivedi and Shanu Saini.Rash shotsQuite clearly, the home team would rue playing rash shots; like the ones played by Rudra Dhanday, Khizar Dafedar and Sairaj Patil. Skipper Mulani, who took charge of the proceedings from 74 for three and put on a splendid 90-run stand with Tamore, lifted a shot down the throat of Trivedi at deep midwicket. The third-highest run-getter for Mumbai this year after Armaan Jaffer and Shaw, Mulani expressed disappointment after being tempted to hit the ball with the spin. He had showed powers of concentration for a little short of three hours.The two teams had a handful of players who were probably unlucky not to have made the India under-19 team for the ICC World Cup; one of them was left arm spinner Sidak Singh, who was reported during the inter-zonals and had to rectify his action. He showed a lot of spunk while hitting out at the bowlers of his ilk. He and Jadhav blitzed their way to make 59 runs to lift their team from a dismal 221 for seven to 280.Mumbai, which had looked in command at 164 for three, lost its way nearing the tea-break. “Chaudhary saheb, badiya” yelled Harsh Vardhan after his skipper had stopped a hard hit shot by Jadhav at the stroke of tea. The UP captain led by example to lift the fielding standards of his team. He snapped up with two hands a dipping catch at slip to send back Tamore, and then pulled off a brilliant catch at short cover when Jadhav attempted a full-blooded shot off Harsh Vardhan.For the visitor, Harsh Vardhan was the most impressive, scalping three wickets, with a burst probably measuring 15 yards. Towards the end, he intimidated Sidak with two bouncers - the left- hander left one and fell to the second, losing his balance. In short, the two teams played fearless cricket, notwithstanding the situation; and it looks as though the four-day match would go to the wire.BRIEF SCORESMumbai – 1st innings: 289 (Prithvi Shaw 34, Hardik Tamore 76, Shams Mulani 56, Onkar Jadhav 53, Sidak Singh 31; Harshvardhan 3/53, Trishal Trivedi 3/75, Vineet Panwar 2/51) vs Uttar Pradesh 28/0.