http://www.thehindu.com/sci-tech/A-star-wails-at-its-destruction/article13996332.ece

The universe is hardly a static entity; some processes of building-up or breaking-down keep happening in it. Important among these processes are the phenomena of accretion and outflow. While accretion is the process by which celestial bodies amass material and grow, outflow processes concern the spewing out of matter or energy, for instance, in the form of relativistic jets. Such phenomena are seen, for instance, during the formation of the first galaxies in the early universe or the formation of stars.Supermassive black holes, which can be 10 billion times as massive as our sun, but compressed in a small radius, are efficient accretors. They also spew relativistic jets that can extend up to millions of light years distance from the source. Now, a paper published recently in Science has some interesting results.By observing a Tidal Disruption Flare (TDF) known as ASASSN-14li, the researchers have spotted a transient relativistic jet flowing out from a supermassive black hole system that captured and destroyed a star that came close to it. This discovery provides a proof that the processes of accretion and outflow are coupled.There are many reasons for studying accretion and outflow. These mechanisms fuel some of the most powerful astrophysical events; they are convenient labs to study very high energy physics and they also regulate life cycle of stellar objects. Since these are ubiquitously seen, astrophysics seek to understand these mechanisms all the time.Quasars evolve on very large timescales. Stellar mass black holes, however, are guided by timescales that are a million times shorter — stretching from a few hours to days. The TDFs observed by the research group fall in between these ranges. These are events that happen when a star passes close to a supermassive black hole and is ripped apart by the black hole’s gravitational force.Observations of ASASSN-14li have led the team to conclude that a certain radio luminosity they have observed cannot be attributed to accretion but is a result of the formation of a relativistic jet flowing out. The rapid waning of this jet suggests that it is linked to the way the accretion flow changed.