http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/A-star-studded-stage/article14012123.ece

Prominent names from the small and silver screens are to grace the Chennai stage this weekend. As One on One – Part Two, a collection of playlets by Mumbai-based Rage Production premieres in the city, it brings with it names such as Rajit Kapur, Anuradha Menon (popularly known through her alter ego, Lola Kutty), Neil Bhoopalam, Hussain Dalal, Akarsh Khurana, Rahul da Cunha and more.“Since we are all engaged with film and television pursuits, it’s very difficult to get everyone together. We need at least two-three months notice before booking a show,” says Rajit Kapur, co-founder, Rage Theatre. “ One on One began over half a decade ago. Because it was so successful, and brought a lot of the theatre world together, we launched the second part last August.” The act portraying slices of life, speckled with humour, he says, offers a collage of modern India.Out of the eight short pieces to be performed, Rajit directs two — one about a ticket collector in Madhya Pradesh who gets beaten by his passengers, and another revolving around a young Gujarati man who’s settled in New York and wants to open a cafe called ‘Bombay’. He also stars in an act about a body which takes nine days to cremate, which laughs at our bureaucratic system, and also steps in for Sumeet Vyas, who was unable to perform at this show, in a tale about two soldiers from the Line of Control.The show, presented by Cherry Pik Ventures for Chennai Flood Relief, promises to be a reflection of the different attitudes and perspectives of modern India. Says Rajit, “I’ve performed in Chennai many times, and find that they are a very discerning audience; if you give them good meat, they will chew on it.”One on One – Part Two will be staged at Sir Mutha Venkatasubba Rao Concert Hall on January 23 at 7 p.m. Passes are priced at Rs. 500, Rs. 750, Rs. 1,000, Rs. 1,500 and Rs. 2,000. The play is open for those aged 12 and above. For details, call 98402 36367.