http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Food/A-Southern-food-odyssey/article14012108.ece

Upma and dosa may have been featured among the world’s tastiest dishes, but South Indian cuisine, at its heart, has a lot more to offer. The cuisine comprises a range of flavours, textures and colours, both simple and complex. The offerings of each region are distinct, and more often than not, healthy.While the Southern states are similar in terms of their usage of rice, lentils, coconut, fruits and spices — predominantly ginger, garlic, tamarind or turmeric — their combinations vary.Rice, sambar, rasam and curd may seem South Indian staples, but each Southern state actually has its own unique tradition of flavours.Here’s a look at some of traditional dishes.Andhra Pradesh gets boldTomato PappuAndhra cuisine is marked by bold, strong flavours enhanced by spices. The State specialises in a particular style of cooking dal, flavoured with mango, and more commonly, tomato. The tomato pappu or tomato dal, made of tur dal, tomato chunks and chillies, is a well-loved Telugu recipe. This fat-free, nutrient-rich staple blends the tartness of tomato with the spiciness of chillies, tempered by turmeric and curry leaves in crackling mustard. The dish is usually served with steaming rice as part of a meal. Mamidikaya Pappu, is a rarer and equally popular version of the Tomato Pappu, loved for its sour-spicy taste.The taste of Tamil NaduAngaya PodiRice is the hero of Tamil cuisine, prevalent in almost every dish, from idli and dosa to pongal. However, millets, particularly thinai (foxtail millet) and samai (little millet), used to make upma, pongal or kozhukattai (steamed dumplings), are making a reappearance. Just like rasam, which is native to Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, and is considered to have over 40 medicinal properties, Angaya Podi or Angaya powder is an ancient Tamil recipe, passed down generations. Made using a variety of herbs and spices, including long pepper, ginger, pepper, cumin, makoy or black nightshade and dry neem flowers, it is known for its high medicinal value. It is said to relieve indigestion, vomiting, loss of appetite, sore throat, ulcer, cold and cough. It is also known to cleanse the digestive system. Angaya Podi is generally served with rice.A case for Karnataka’s rotisRagi RotiThough ragi (finger millet) is cooked in Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, it is celebrated in Karnataka through the ragi mudde (ball) and ragi dosa. Jowar and bajra too are an important part of the native Karnataka diet, and are used to make rotis. The ragi roti, usually eaten for breakfast, is flavoured with onions, chillies, cumin and carrots, and is best served hot with chutney.“Ragi roti is highly nutritious. It doesn’t have too many carbohydrates; it is fibrous, rich in proteins and has a lot of absorbable calcium,” says Suguna Karanam, whose family hails from a farming background.RECIPEIngredients:1/2 cup ragi flour1.5 tbsp curdChopped onions, grated carrot, finely-chopped green chillies, as requiredSalt to tasteMethod:Combine all the ingredients in a bowl and knead into soft-smooth dough, using enough water.Divide the dough into equal portions.Place on a clear plastic/cellophane sheet coated with oil, and tap into a roti.Unstick and place the roti on a non-stick pan. Cook for over 30-45 seconds as required.Flip the roti using a flat spoon and cook the other side for a few seconds.Repeat for the remaining portions.Recipe courtesy: Suguna KaranamKerala’s sweet toothChakkappamCoconut and jackfruit, which are two trademark produces of the State, are among the most important ingredients in Kerala cuisine. The State passionately loves its jackfruit, which is prepared in several different ways, from fritters to mashes, puddings and wraps. Even the seeds of the fruit are sautéed and relished. The kumbilappam or chakkappam is a Kerala snack made using jackfruit, rice flour, coconut and jaggery, wrapped in cones (kumbils) of bay leaves and steamed. “It is not usually found in cafes or restaurants, being a home-cooked dish. It has a short shelf life and is best eaten fresh,” says Radhika Menon, a passionate cook who hails from Ottapalam, Kerala.RECIPEIngredients:Chopped jackfruit flesh – 1 cupGrated coconut – 1/2 to 3/4 cupGrated jaggery – 1/2 cup or as requiredRoasted rice flour – 1 cupCardamom powder – 1/2 tspBay leaves – 12 to 15, or as requiredA pinch of salt to tasteMethod:Add chopped jackfruit, grated coconut, grated jaggery, rice flour, cardamom powder and salt. Add sufficient water and knead to form a slightly sticky dough.Shape the bay leaves into cones and secure with a toothpick or coir if needed.Fill the cones with the dough and cover with the leaf.Steam the cones for about 15 to 20 minutes in a steamer or an idli steamer.Serve with tea.Note:Banana leaves may be used in the absence of bay laves.Bananas may be used in the absence of jackfruit.Chakka varatti or jackfruit jam may also be used in place of the fruit.Recipe courtesy: Radhika Menon