http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/A-step-forward-in-health-care/article14005099.ece

The medical devices manufacturing park, announced in Andhra Pradesh, is expected to be located in Visakhapatnam with a potential to attract an investment of around Rs.20,000 crore.Highly-placed sources told The Hindu that the Centre is expected to take a decision on location of the park in the city due to port connectivity, proposal to develop a world-class logistic hub near Anakapalle. The city also can boast of having vast area for development of Health City near Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences and plans to make it a centre for medical tourism.Union Healthy Ministry Joint Secretary Jitendra Sharma visited Visakhapatnam last month to find out availability of suitable land in the city to locate the park. Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu during his visit to New Delhi in November asked the Association of Indian of Medical Devices Manufacturers to explore the available opportunities in AP in the park proposed in an area of 200 acres with a cluster for MSME.The medical industry in the State has lauded the decision of the Centre and the State government saying it would substantially bring down the cost of medical care. Apollo Hospitals (Hospital Division) president K. Hari Prasad said health care could be made affordable once medical devices were built in AP under ‘Make in India’ programme.At present, almost 70 to 80 per cent of high-end devices are being imported from the United States and the Europe. Varian Medical Systems of the US, Toshiba of Japan, Siemens and Philips are the leading suppliers. Managing Director of Lazarus Hospitals Vegesna Varma said the rate of CT scan, which used to cost Rs.2 crore 20 years ago, had not come down now despite technological advancements due to variety of factors including dollar appreciation and rupee depreciation. Instead of high-end 3D slicer CT scan, Cath lab equipment, ultra sound and X-ray, the Indian hospitals would be benefited if low-end devices were manufactured in India in collaboration with foreign companies, he stated.Mahatma Gandhi Cancer Hospital and Research Institute Managing Director V. Murali Krishna said if the manufacturing hub was created in Vizag, it would facilitate substantial reduction in the prices of diagnostic, therapeutic and monitoring devices.Import dutyDr. Murali Krishna said the people would get lot of benefits if CT scan, Cath lab and consumables were manufactured and sought a comprehensive policy to extend benefits and encourage creation of the required ecosystem for medical device manufacturing locally.Medical devices manufacturing park to come up in Visakhapatnam withRs. 20,000 crore