http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/A-shot-in-the-arm-for-Nelliampathy-conservation/article13985701.ece

The campaign to save biodiversity-rich Nelliampathy Hills that house the Parambikulam Tiger Reserve has started gaining momentum with the recent Kerala High Court order ratifying government takeover of 486.63 acres of leased forestland occupied by Mira-Flores Estate. The bench comprising Chief Justice Ashok Bhushan and Justice P.R. Ramachandra Menon had ratified the government stand that the land must be taken back from the private occupant for violating lease agreements.Ownership of the forestland, leased out to British nationals by the then Princely State of Cochin for cultivating coffee, pepper and spices, had been transferred many times post-independence to Indian nationals violating forest conservation rules. It was about four years ago that the State government started acting against the estate owners for using the leased land for tourism industry in violation of the lease agreements. The High Court found the lease agreements null and void, and according to it, the reselling of the leased land involved serious violation of laws. The order has given hopes to forest officials who wage five other cases in the High Court on similar grounds to take back more than 4,000 acres of leased forestland.“The atmosphere is now conducive to promulgating an ordinance taking back all the 52 estates in Nelliampathy, which have violated lease agreements. The State government can use the court order as a solid weapon to fight other violators. The biodiversity-rich Nelliampathy is the origin of numerous streams irrigating vast stretches of farms in Palakkad in Kerala and Coimbatore and Tirupur districts in Tamil Nadu and its conservation would benefit generations,” says environmental activist P.S. Panicker.“Rapid changes in land use pattern including running of illegal quarries and deforestation had almost killed Nelliampathy, where landslides are common. Takeover of the estates in forestland would help avert an impending environmental catastrophe,” says social activist Arumukhan Pathichira.Nelliampathy is an abode of rare and endangered flora and fauna. The storage in the dams of Pothundi, Meenkara, Chulliyar, Mangalam and Peechi has been badly affected by the deforestation of Nelliampathy hills, says environmentalist Tony Thomas.