http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/A-spiritual-campaign-to-keep-red-sanders-smugglers-at-bay/article13976369.ece

: With no let-up in the influx of hired woodcutters from Tamil Nadu into the Seshachalam and Nallamala forests of the Rayalaseema districts to supply the red sanders logs to the smuggling network, the Red Sanders Anti-Smuggling Task Force (RSASTF) and the Forest Department are forced renowned scholars associated with the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) to conduct out an awareness campaign in the forest fringe villages abutting the red sanders core belt, seeking participation of local population in preventing the contraband operations.The theme of the campaign with scholars Telugu literature and Vedic studies is to educate rural people about the importance of flora and fauna in the red-sanders rich zone of Seshachalam and Nallamala hills, giving a touch of spiritualism by drawing references from the Vedas, Mahabharata, Ramayana and Bhagavatam, in addition to the famous works of famous saint-poet Tallapaka Annamacharya, and Telugu poets down the centuries, particularly in the court of Vijayanagara king Krishnadevaraya.As part of the “spiritual and literary plan of action,” the RSASTF head and DIG M. Kantha Rao, who was previously the director of the cultural wing of the undivided Andhra Pradesh, has involved the services of TTD scholars Dr. Medasani Mohan (a famed Sahasravadhani), Dr. Samudrala Lakshmaiah (author of several popular spiritual publications of the TTD), G. Damodar Naidu (retired Telugu professor of SV University) and Vishnuvardhan Sharma (faculty of Vedic studies at SV Vedic University) and several young students of Vedas. A preliminary meeting was conducted by the Task Force with the scholars at Biotrim Institute in Tirupati on December 28.Dr. Medasani Mohan, an authority on Annamacharya’s keerthanas, said that in Telugu literature since centuries, the trees on Seshachalam hills held great importance, enjoying close affinity with Lord Venkateswara. Annamacharya made extensive references to various trees, including red sanders, in his sankeerthanas. Similarly, Allasani Peddana, Tikkana, and court poets of Vijaya Nagara empire devoted much time in depicting the nature and significance of various trees, sounding their relevance to wildlife and human existence.Vedic scholar Vishnuvardhan Sharma observed that according to the Rigveda, the most ancient scripture the world, the original form of God is a tree, and the Vedas are also in the form a tree. He said that the Vaikhanasa agama, the doctrine which governs the Tirumala temple administration, says that Lord Venkateswara himself is a tree and all devotees worshipping the Lord are also trees. He said the modalities of the awareness campaign would soon be worked out.