http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/A-shift-of-canvas/article14022791.ece

The India Art Fair in its eight edition has quite a few aces up its sleeve. It has an international artistic director on board, boasts a new engagement with folk and tribal art and is flaunting an interdisciplinary approach. A public art festival by the real-estate major DLF, celebration of former National School of Drama director Ebrahim Alkazi at the fair, participation of Godrej India Culture Lab and discussions on the relationship between literature and art between poet-screenwriter Javed Akhtar and painter-writer Gulammohammed Sheikh, are steps taken in this direction. Another seminal addition at the fair this year is Experimenta, a space for experimental films founded by Shai Heredia. Spread over three days, Shai has curated a collection of nine films. These works “City Beyond”, “Bare” “Jan Villa”, “Noon Day Dispensary” “Enroute or of a Thousand Moons”, “Pati”, “We in a one room kitchen field” etc. are concerned with politics of form and memory.Experimental videos made by artists are not new to the audience which is familiar with contemporary art then what different experience are these films going to offer at the venue? “This is different from video art made by artists who are sculptors, a painter working with new media. The filmmakers whose films will be showcased primarily work with film as their medium. It is not a gallery experience. The way you engage with it is different. I would never want my work to show in a gallery on a loop because I haven’t made it that way. It has a beginning, middle and the end,” explains Shai who founded Experimenta in 2003 in Mumbai. Three years later, she moved to Bengaluru bringing with her the platform which hosts a bi-annual festival of inventive works.At the fair, Shai is also moderating a discussion around distribution and collection of such films with speakers like Stuart Comer, chief curator of the department of media and performance art at The Museum of Modern Art, Benjamin Cook, director of LUX and co-convener of the MRes Art and Amar Kanwar, artist. “How do you create an economy of acquisition and collection around these films. How do you distribute it and why can’t an artist film exist in the economy just like any other object of art,” says the filmmaker.I ask her about Amar Kanwar, who began as a documentary filmmaker but now has his works being shown by museums and galleries across the world. “He comes from a documentary background. He has a narrative documentary style which he then makes it spatial and experiential,” says Shai.The films at the festival “enroute or “of a Thousand Moons”, “City Beyond”, “Pati”, “Noon Day Dispensary” etc. have varied content. “One film in the memory section uses found footage. It’s a personal narrative. How do you represent politics? If the idea of films are able extend time and change your perception of space. The films start discussions around these issues.”Shai says the audience for these kind of films have increased manifold and Bengaluru in particular with its push to alternative arts has become a bedrock. “There are enough number of people who are bored of mainstream stuff. People are open to not having conventional stuff. These spaces are inspiring and rejuvenating for them. In Bangalore, a very clued in audience comes in for our festivals there who ask right kind of questions and with so much confidence. Delhi and Mumbai has this we-have-seen-it all kind of attitude. Here they are curious and expressive. I don’t think we would have experienced something like this in Bombay.”Shai feels Experimenta’s first presence at India Art Fair will enable the platform to reach out to multiple audiences. “The works are very strong. Hope people at the fair respond to it.”(India Art Fair will be held at NSIC Grounds, Okhla in Delhi from January 29-31)