http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/A-sprawling-mana-in-the-city/article14014042.ece

A mana in Edappally is almost a mathematical improbability, especially in a congested part of the area, Ponnekkara. Armed with cynicism I set out looking for it. The brief for the column is that the living space should be at least half a century old, a mana would only be older I tell myself. It is in the middle of a huge, shady compound, my source had said. Manakkaparambu Road is narrow and it looks like it’ll narrow even further. It doesn’t. After a series of turns past houses crammed together there is, suddenly, open space and then a gate; and then nothing. The compound wall skirts the road, and further ahead is another gate into the compound. Mangalath Mana, the gate announces.M.G. Govindan Namboodiri opens the gates to the Namboodiri homestead set in the middle of five acres. The open space is a balm for construction-weary eyes. To the left of the driveway to the house, is a pond, “very much in use,” he says. There is some activity near it, “we are trying to get some organic farming done.”The well-maintained tile-roofed house, built in the traditional naalukettu style, befits the acreage it sits on. The entrance is towards its left. Stepping into the house, Namboodiri introduces his nonagenarian father, also Govindan Namboodiri, M.N. Govindan Namboodiri. He lives there with his daughter-in-law Latha and her family. Her husband the late Narayanan was Namboodiri Senior’s older son. The drawing room is flanked by a veranda and a room which was part of the veranda.The yawning wide spaces in the house speak of a place peopled by many and even more stories. “I was born in this house. It’s been so long I don’t remember much,” says the white-haired Namboodiri Senior. Latha and M.G. Namboodiri fix the vintage of the house at 104 years old, built when M.N. Namboodiri’s late brother was a year-old. The house was built by Namboodiri Senior’s father, Narayanan Namboodiri sometime in 1912.It used to be an ettukettu before time and the elements ravaged it and practical considerations led to it being reduced to a naalukettu. “Ours was a huge family. My father’s brothers and their families lived here, all under one roof. I remember this place as bustling. At a given time we would have many relatives staying here, they’d have come here for some work of the other,” M.G. Namboodiri says.More than a mere dwelling place, it speaks of how the quotidian melded seamlessly with the metaphysical. The drawing room leads to a nadumuttam (courtyard) around which are the ara, the thekkini and a couple of rooms. The thekkini faces the nadumuttam. “When there is a death in the family, the body is laid here and is taken out, for cremation, through the thekkini’s exit,” he adds. This space is used for other religious rituals as well. In one corner sits a safe of German make, “it has been here ever since I remember,” Namboodiri Junior says.The wooden rafters are well-preserved as is rest of the woodwork. The underground nilavara too has been preserved.Rooms of many sizes mark nooks and corners of the house. On the right side of the house, Latha opens a door to show the shrine of the family deity. Opening the door creates quite a racket, “the doors have been built to create a racket so people knew when a door was opened.”Preserving a house this old would be difficult, I ask. The family exchanges conspiratorial looks, “we have a person,” is all Namboodiri Junior reveals.The nadumuttam opens to another room which was also used for pujas and that leads to the ‘modern’ part of the house. The second, bigger nadumuttam used to be here, Latha says. It is today a biggish hall, the kitchen too has been modernised but a wooden window opens to a well from which in the old days water was drawn for use in the kitchen. “The walls have been retained. In fact, breaking these walls is extremely difficult, that is how solidly built these are,” Latha says. The house accommodates the old way of living and modernity.The back door opens out to a kulapura (tank shed) and another pond. “We still bathe here,” she adds. The pond is a striking deep shade of emerald. “There was another pond here to wash the utensils but we stopped using it. It made sense when there was a lot of help available. It is impractical in these times.” The house, in its ettukettu days, extended right up to the kulapura.The changes were made in consultation with vaastu experts, Namboodiri says.As I get ready to leave Namboodiri Senior points to the ara and its manichitrathaazhu. He shows how a manichitrathaazhu works – “a person unfamiliar with its working cannot open the door. Simple. Every time the key is turned the wrong way, a bell tinkles, which is how it gets its name.” It looked new, golden paint and all, “it is not. It has been here for the last 104 years.”