http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/society/A-tale-of-two-mice/article13982741.ece

A row of travelling barbers have set up their chairs and mirrors on a pavement in Bharatpur. We stop like typical tourists to capture them on camera. One barber turns around and clicks us on his mobile phone. Touche! I wouldn’t be surprised if he’d shared it on Facebook. It is high time someone rewrote Aesop’s fable about the town mouse and the country mouse for twenty-first-century India.We know there’s a cellphone ringing behind every haystack but it isn’t the only indication of the shrinking gap between “India and Bharat” as TV pundits are fond of saying. Across the body of the nation, ‘city’ has bled into ‘country’, and the Market nestles in its very armpits. In Rajasthan, in one of those Below-Poverty-Line villages where the drying cowdung cakes look healthier than the population, a village that a SUV could cross in 30 seconds if only the road hadn’t consisted of runnels of sewage flowing between crushed bricks, two stalls sell little else but small, blue, tinfoil pouches of paan. Those shiny multicoloured packs are omnipresent, and where BPL tends toward APL, the foil expands to hold potato chips.We city mice are at a distinct disadvantage when it comes to identifying crops enroute. Is that sugarcane, jowar or wheat? Only harvested sheaves or heaps of grain can tell us which is which. A dhaba owner informs me that what I see being cultivated in the neighbouring field are potatoes; I’ve never clapped eyes on the plant that bears my favourite vegetable. City mice are objects of enduring fascination for country mice be they truck drivers at dhabas watching us use hand sanitisers and drink bottled water, or children, like ten-year-old Bhumika in Guddadamane, a thinly populated halli where the terrain is mainly forest and plantation. She keeps hanging around us although “good morning” is one of only two or three English phrases she knows. When she realises that I do speak Kannada she rattles on about her daily life while also fulfilling her bottomless curiosity about the city. She walks to the government primary school with two other children, and the bell rings at ten. “How do children in Bengaluru go to school?” she asks. Her eyes open really wide when I explain that kids have to wake up at the crack of dawn to board the school bus since classes start at eight or so. One of the first questions she asks me, though, is whether I have a mobile phone, and what size it is. “I play games on my appa’s phone.”Her family, she says, consists of appa, amma, one big sister, one grandmother, one dog, one cat, one kitten and one parakeet. After she points to her small house across the road, she asks about mine. Since flats and apartments are terms she has never heard, I struggle to describe them, and once it sinks in she says brightly, “Aah, maadi mele maadi (roof upon roof). I have seen them in Chikmagalur town. But how do you build your own house, then?” A highly pertinent question. Unless you coordinated with the families above or below you, wouldn’t your house be left hanging mid-air? I tell her that everyone gives money to one man, a builder, who builds all the houses together.Curiosity streaked with envy can morph into despair, which is most evident in villages that depend entirely on tourism. In the middle of the wilderness you find a “German Bakery” and “CD Burn” and a clutch of “WiFi Free” restaurants that advertise a highly unlikely combination of Italian, Korean, Greek, Mexican, Japanese, and even Jewish (is it kosher?) cuisine. A girl in Orchcha instantly greets an East Asian woman with “Ni hao, Konichiwa”, although she is neither Chinese nor Japanese. The country mice in Fatehpur have joined the rat race; they suffocate us as they fight to peddle their trinkets, and we sleek city mice, guiltily remembering the cheese hoarded in our holes, feel obliged to share some of it.What country mice covet most about us, though, are higher education and the English language. Our hotel room boy in Gwalior says he can speak English thoda-thoda but adds enthusiastically that both his daughters are “English-medium mein”. Near Bailuvaddigere, on the Hampi-Belgaum highway, we city mice looking for a nibble discover that a petrol bunk proprietor also owns the dhaba next to it. In fact we’re practically inaugurating the dhaba because it is slated to open the following day. Since we’re ‘boney’ customers, Basha’s wife Shanu rustles up a great meal with needless apologies and serves us tea with milk set aside for the auspicious milk-boiling ritual, while Basha himself serves us delicious slices of philosophy. Many are the parables he narrates in Kannada and Urdu. At one point he observes, in English, “Educated customers, educated owner” and guffaws hugely. His father was a government servant working on the Tungabhadra Dam. “I had to walk to school because I couldn’t afford the monthly bus pass of Rs 1.62 p,” he says. But since he made a decent pile slaving away in “the Gulf”, he is proud to say that his children are “doctor, engineer, software”.Someday the two mice might look like twins. But only if we evenly spread the cheese.