http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/A-tough-call/article14013982.ece

We are at dinner to celebrate the New Year, and the table is lit by a strange glow. It isn’t the warm flush of candlelight, it’s rather the harsh neon white bouncing off mobile phones that every one, eyes downcast, seems to be paying silent supplication to. The dishes arrive, the rising steam clouds goblets and iPad screens, and the Instagrammers get to work. When conversation extends beyond the perfunctory yes or no, eyes wander to check phones for messages and mails. Finally, when dessert is served signalling the end of an evening with barely any banter, those who’ve sold their souls for the perfect selfie pout in front of a sinking soufflé.Barely a week ago, actor Jennifer Lawrence called out to a reporter at the Golden Globe Awards. “You can’t live your whole life behind your phone, bro,” Lawrence said. “You gotta live in the now.” While Lawrence has received both flak and praise for her comment against the inappropriate use of the mobile phone, she also put the focus back on something we’ve had to deal with for nearly two decades now. Technology can be life enhancing but we need to relearn how and where we use it.Take, for instance, the last time I went to the theatre. The hero in the magnum opus on screen was about to die, and, suddenly, from two rows ahead Gloria Gaynor’s ‘I Will Survive’ filled the hall. Never mind the inappropriateness of the song competing with the lead actor’s soliloquy, what was galling was that the phone was answered (not in sotto voce either) and worse still, there was no apology offered for ruining our movie experience. A few ‘tch tchs’ were heard but most ploughed on watching. Perhaps, it’s because we’ve learnt to accept phone disruptions, and the lack of an apology as permanent in a world that now brings ‘you, me and my phone’ to public spaces. We’ve become the kind of people who draw succour from the glint of the five bars that signal a full range, and the fact that if it hasn’t rung in a while means nothing disastrous has occurred to our families or our jobs. Studies reveal that mobile phones are increasingly seen as an extension of people’s physical selves, and when deprived of them, individuals are unable to perform simple tasks. In the glory days of the telephone, it was considered impolite to not answer a ringing landline, but it’s quite the opposite with the mobile phone, especially when in company. Also, landlines ringing late at night signalled an emergency but that’s not the case with the mobile phone where WhatsApp jokes beep way past the witching hour. The onus of civility in the era of the telephone was on the one making the call. It is the death of this etiquette, rather than the pervasiveness of the mobile phone, that is the tragedy. Texting anarchy has led to some cities opening specific paths for walkers who are in danger of mowing down others or arriving in Middle-Earth via manholes. Comperes announce unceasingly for mobile phones to be switched off during stage productions. Social media celebrated the Look Up Campaign, urging people to look up from their mobile phones, even while they watched the campaign unfold on their electronic devices.And yet, we are unable to turn it all off. Even shaming doesn’t seem to work. Digital detoxes are for folks like English actor Eddie Redmayne who have thrown away their fancy phones for cheap bits of plastic; people for whom detox is a status symbol, much like classic cars. Not for regular folks for whom the porous line between work and home ensures that there is no such thing as staying offline. What if it’s the daughter’s homework that now arrives as a text message from school? Or, a colleague who simply must know where the office files are? Or the mad friend, half way up Kanchendzonga, calling from her ice-crusted phone?Now, must dash. While I’ve been at this, the mobile phone has been flashing like a dying supernova. Perhaps, it’s someone calling to announce the end of the world. 