http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/A-teacher-comes-to-the-fore/article13994039.ece

Visakhapatnam MP K. Haribabu was on the faculty of chemical engineering of AU College of Engineering before he took a plunge into politics. Last week, at the inaugural function of the INSPIRE Camp for intermediate students, the teacher in him woke up. After a lengthy speech he said he could not resist speaking after watching a large number of students in front of him. During his speech, the MP touched upon many aspects that should benefit the students. He urged them innovate and find cheaper medicines for chronic diseases. He said in the US the local students have a lot of respect for their Indian counterparts because we (Indians) are good at physics, mathematics. Six out of top 10 scientists working with NASA are Indians, he said. He was happy to see students making to the camp from the rural schools on the basis of their performance in SSC exam and told them that medium of instruction or background does not matter if one worked hard.Democrat to core Union Civil Aviation Minister and scion of Vizianagaram Samsthan P. Ashok Gajapati Raju was praised sky high for his simplicity at the Janma Bhoomi Maa Vooru programme at Doddupalem village in Chodavaram mandal on Sunday. The residents made it a point to recall that Vizianagaram Samsthan held lands across the district, including the village and how his family had given it up all and had spent a fortune to promote education. Responding to such adulation was very difficult, the Union Minister said. In an inspirational speech he quoted Gurajada Appa Rao to emphasise the need for being socially relevant.Leaders who supply liquor free are not friends of the society but a menace as they are out to destroy family harmony, he said taking a dig at present day political leaders. It is up to you to look up to such people or become good citizens by doing good he told people who had come from far to look at the member of the royal family that once ruled over them.Oratory skills Union Minister for Urban Development Venkaiah Naidu’s greatest gift is his oratory skills. For athletes participating in the National Rural Games at Gudivada, it was a treat listening to his words of wisdom. The Minister, apart from his timely advice to youngsters, scored several brownie points by hailing politicians from Opposition parties. His words, laced with abundant praises on arch rivals, were in sync with the mood in the national capital, especially the passing of the GST Bill in Parliament. “Kodali Nani is not my enemy. He is only my political rival, he said, leaving the bearded Nani break into a smile. However, he was non-committal on the development works envisaged for the bustling town and said he had come only for the inauguration of the national sports event. He signed off with a promise that the Central government would stand shoulder-to-shoulder with the State in the construction of Amaravati.Naidu not to get bogged down Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu remarked in his tour of Kurnool that people must safeguard culture, traditions and imbibe spiritualism.Lauding the girls who performed Kuchipudi, he exhorted parents to teach art forms to girls.He rued the injustice done to Andhra Pradesh during bifurcation. “Assets went to Telangana and liabilities came to AP. The new State has more population, less revenue, no capital, no industries. “But I will not get bogged down. I will forge ahead,” he said.