http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/A-tale-of-lucky-draws-broken-dreams-for-Central-Delhi-slums/article14025370.ece

People living in the slum cluster behind Le Meridian hotel and the Youth Congress office in Central Delhi were a joyous lot when they were short-listed for rehabilitation in 2011. Their fortune seemed to have turned overnight as the government allotted concrete houses to them in Dwarka, a sub-city in south-west Delhi.For them, Dwarka was full of possibilities — a move that would alleviate them from poverty and place them in the city’s upwardly mobile, middle-class ecosystem. And so, the people of this slum started dreaming.Soon, the dowry rates for prospective grooms from the slum went up; their relatives in the villages described them as ‘ ghar baethe lakhpati ’. In fact, they even started buying furniture for their new houses, content that life was going to change for the better.Sniffing an opportunity, real estate agents hovered over this slum. Some offered money in advance, Rs. 25 lakh, for each house. “They asked us to transfer the flats to them and sign affidavits,” said Vijay Kumar, a resident. People started counting the money before their dream could turn into a reality. The wait turned into weeks, months and years.Then came 2014. With Delhi under the President’s rule, the Lieutenant-Governor tweaked the rehabilitation policy. With this, those residing in slums as on January 1, 2014, became eligible for what the government calls EWS flats, as against the earlier cut-off year of 2009. The Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) officials decided to carry out another survey and draw-of-lots. This time, the residents of slum clusters were allotted flats in Baprola and Bawana — neighbourhoods where property prices were much lower as compared to Dwarka.With their ‘rich’ dreams shattered, they ceased to think about moving.Former Chief Minister Sheila Dikshit floated the dream of a home for the poor in 2008. But owning a house in Dwarka was a shortcut to quick money for them.Among all the EWS Housing projects taken up in the city, Dwarka was prime location. The flats — barely 100 metres from the Sector 14 Metro station with wide roads around, well-maintained parks and schools in the vicinity — were a steal for real estate companies. Brokers say a flat measuring 42 square yards here can easily fetch Rs. 30 lakh.The slum dwellers were living in a bubble with these flats being the solution to their miseries. They earned enough to survive in the slums, but not enough to survive in a place like Dwarka, where even those living in other housing complexes have to buy water on a daily basis.Experts say that the rehabilitation policy is flawed and, in a way, lures these slum dwellers to sell their flats. “Dwarka is an upper-middle class neighbourhood and, on the other hand, relocation is risky. Not that slum dwellers want to make money out of this scheme, but the circumstances push them to brokers. Selling the flats becomes the solution,” said Indu Prakash Singh, convenor of the National Forum for Housing Rights.Even DUSIB officials admit that people from ‘posh’ slums are eyeing Dwarka flats. “Some slum residents of R.K. Puram offered us Rs. 2 lakh instead of Rs 1.12 lakh for these flats,” said a senior official.The residents of slum clusters have another demand. “It is fine if they give us Dwarka flats or else we want a house within a five-kilometre radius from here,” said Ganga Ram, a worker with the Youth Congress and a resident.But now Bawana and Baprola have replaced Dwarka, on Wednesday a group of men considered elder in the slum went to the two housing complexes to see their ‘future life’. “They told us that life will be worse there. How will we survive in those far-flung areas with new people?” asked Rehana Asif.During the 2015 Delhi elections, the Aam Aadmi Party and the Congress promised houses within a five-kilometre radius. But today, resident Aarti Devi asks “Where are Arvind Kejriwal, Rahul Gandhi and our five-kilometre far houses?”