http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/A-tribal-hospital-crying-for-attention/article14006778.ece

Two tribal infant deaths since the beginning of 2016 have added to the chorus for improving facilities at Government Tribal Hospital at Kottathara in Attappady. The second death was reported late on Sunday night from Mettuvazhi tribal settlement where a seven-month-old boy died of diarrhoea, high fever, and dehydration. The baby boy of Pappathi-Ratheesh couple was born underweight and was suffering from multiple diseases.It was on January 4 that the first infant death this year was reported. A two-day-old infant from Mulli tribal area was rushed to the tribal hospital following acute respiratory problems. The infant died on the way to the hospital. The area had witnessed 24 infant deaths last year. An additional 26 cases of miscarriages and neo-natal deaths were also reported during the period.“Following the intervention of the State Human Rights Commission, a fulltime gynaecologist was appointed at the hospital last week. A paediatrician will join next week. Improving the facilities at the hospital alone can save tribal children and their undernourished mothers from death,” said tribal activist K.A. Ramu.Though the Palakkad district administration had written to the State government last year seeking administrative sanction to construct two more floors for the hospital and increase the number of beds, the sanction is still awaited. Permission has also been sought for utilising Rs.2 crore sanctioned recently for the health sector in Attappady to improve facilities at the hospital.According to department officials, the hospital is facing a number of problems, including lack of specialists and technicians to operate devices. “The practice of referring patients to hospitals in Coimbatore and Palakkad should end,” said Rajendra Prasad, social activist. He said improving facilities at the hospital and various primary health centres under it would be vital to curb infant mortality.The specialty hospital had turned into a referral one due to lack of doctors and facilities. At present, the hospital has vacancies of 10 doctors.According to hospital authorities, the absence of a centralised oxygen supply facility and power backup was hampering surgeries.The hospital has a lot of problems, including lack of specialists and technicians.