http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Food/A-taste-of-Japan/article13988480.ece

The decor is somewhere between a Japanese tea house and a garden cafe; after all, we have just entered Fuji, the latest Japanese restaurant in the city, through a wooden sliding door.On one side, there are futons, where one can sit on the floor and dine traditionally. On the other, there are semi-private alcoves made of trellises, adorned with faux flowering creepers.With muted lighting and strains of Oriental music, it’s the perfect setting for some warm, fragrant, Japanese green tea, after a mildly chilly scooter ride. The menu is far from minimalistic, considering the restaurant promises to serve authentic Japanese fare. And so they do: starting with yasai no miso shiru (miso soup with vegetables). With its many-layered flavours, and pieces of fried tofu floating in the translucent broth, it is comforting, delicious and filling.For starters, the yasai tempura moriawase turns out to be lightly battered and deep-fried vegetables — zucchini, eggplant, carrot, bell peppers — that are crunchy, and pair well with the bowl of soy-based dipping sauce served with it. The boneless chicken version of this dish ( tori no isobe age) comes doused in tartare sauce, flecked with tiny pieces of gherkins and tomatoes.Even as these are lesser-known aspects of Japanese cuisine, it’s the more popular sushi we are looking forward to. The California roll, which is a makizushi (sushi rice and filling wrapped in a sheet of nori seaweed and cut into slices), is refreshing, with pieces of cucumber in the centre.An assorted platter with maguro, shake and ika sashimi — that’s raw tuna, salmon and squid — comes with the usual pickled ginger and wasabi, and is certainly not for the squeamish, although I did enjoy it. Although the meal was filling, it was light and satiating. Surprisingly, there was no suggestion of dessert from the host, even though there were a few options on the menu.The dishes are served in beautiful porcelain crockery, and while you can try your hand at eating with chopsticks, for the less proficient among us, they do have more conventional cutlery. The service staff are gracious and welcoming, and don’t hover about too much; but this does pose a problem, when you want your teacup refilled, or simply want to ask for the cheque.There are no Indianised dishes on the menu, and they plan to keep it that way; so drop in for lunch or dinner when you’re in the mood to experience some authentic Japanese cuisine.The Fuji Japanese Restaurant is located at New 134, Chamiers Road, Nandanam. Tel: 4211 2511