http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/A-tragic-account/article13984418.ece

It took one moment for Reyhaneh Jabbari, an Iranian girl’s life to change forever. From being a happy 19-year-old girl, Reyhaneh was jailed for defending herself against the man, a government official, who tried to rape her. The man died under mysterious circumstances from multiple stab wounds, even though Reyhaneh stabbed him only once. She underwent a trial for seven years, was declared guilty of pre-meditated murder and hanged in October 2014.An ensemble piece, 7/7/07, devised by Mumbai-based group Fats TheArts Collaborative, based on Reyhaneh’s written accounts will be brought alive on stage at Jagriti Theatre.The play will be in English with some Hindi and Farsi. Founder of Fats TheArts, actor, director, Faezeh Jalali first came across some of Reyhaneh’s letters given to her by one of her friends. “The letters, were so moving, it just boggles the mind. I wondered how I would create a theatre piece from this. I knew I didn’t want to do a monologue,” says Faezeh.Last year, she travelled to Tehran for her cousin’s wedding, and decided to research Reyhaneh’s case.“It was hard to find out anything about it because the internet is censored there.” After she returned to India, she figured out how to create a performance piece. “Ten people over six months created physical theatre to provide a visceral and engaging retelling of her story.”The letters, Faezeh says, reflect remarkable wisdom and maturity. “She understood life in a very deep way, which came from watching the other people in jail. She even writes of her torturers who probably loved in their personal lives. She learned from the other inmates rather than allowing herself to be defeated. Her letters show the triumph of the human spirit.”Faezeh says Reyhaneh’s story has a universal resonance, which highlights violations of human rights in prison systems across the world, crimes against women and the powerlessness of the individual against the state. “By looking specifically at her story, we hope it has a universal significance.”The title of the play is the date when the incident occurred. Though Reyhaneh lost to the State, society rallied around her in support, including her mother who is a theatre artiste and an activist, and to whom Reyhaneh gave her final message.7/7/07 premiered at the NCPA & Vinod and Saryu Doshi Foundation Centrestage Festival in December 2015. It will be staged on January 8 and 9, at 8 p.m. and on January 10 at 6.30 p.m. at Jagriti Theatre, Whitefield. Tickets are priced at Rs. 300 and are available on www.bookmyshow.com and at the venue.