http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/A-tryst-with-world-cinema-unfolds-today/article14023876.ece

The city’s rendezvous with the world cinema will open up on Thursday with the inauguration of the 8{+t}{+h}edition of the Bengaluru International Film Festival (BIFFes), which for the first time will happen simultaneously in Mysuru. There won’t be any formal inauguration of the festival in Mysuru like in Bengaluru. The festival will unfold with the screening of award-winning Kannada film ‘Thithi’ at Kalamandira.Karnataka Chalanachitra Academy chairman S.V. Rajendra Singh Babu told The Hindu over phone from Bengaluru that the festival will showcase movies that have been screened in prestigious international film festivals and also those which have bagged the Golden Globa awards.“It is a golden opportunity for the film enthusiasts in Mysuru to get closer to the best foreign films that will be screened under one roof,” Mr. Babu said. Meanwhile, the registration to the film festival picked up with over 500 registrations received so far.Speaking to The Hindu , A.R. Prakash, Deputy Director of Information and Public Relations, Mysuru, who is coordinating BIFFes in Mysuru, said that the registration will be available even after the festival begins.“We have restricted registrations to 1,000. Once it touches the number, we will close the registrations since four screens at INOX Multiplex can only accommodate 1,200 people,” he added.‘Rangitaranga’ in competition list‘Rangitaranga,’ one of the highly acclaimed Kannada films of 2015, will fight it out to win an award. Directed by Anup Bhandari, the film has been featured in the list with nine other Kannada films. Incidentally, the film has a Mysuru connection with the lead team hailing from Mysuru.Another Kannada film ‘Naana Avanalla Avalu’ (I Am Not He…She), a film into the world of transgenders, which has also won several awards, will also be competing.Other Kannada films in competition include ‘Child of Debt,’ ‘Puta Tirugisi Nodi,’ ‘Priyanka,’ ‘Playing with Dolls or Dolls Play,’ ‘Mythri,’ ‘Farewell,’ ‘Haggada Kone’ (End of The Rope) and ‘Devara Nadalli.’‘Naanu Avanalla Avalu’ has also been listed in the Indian cinema competition category.Likely to be grandThe who’s who of Kannada and world Cinema will be present during the concluding ceremony of BIFFes in Mysuru on February 5. Chief Minister Siddaramaiah will also be present at the valedictory to be held on the premises of the Mysuru Palace.“Our focus is on Bengaluru, since the inauguration has been slated for Thursday. We are trying to rope in many big names for the valedictory in Mysuru. We will be confirming the names soon,” Mr. Babu told The Hindu.