http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/A-treacherous-stretch-in-Adilabad/article13988423.ece

ardly two or three minutes is what a driver gets to ply his vehicle at one go on the narrow and dilapidated carriageway of the road between Hasnapur and Asifabad when he is moving towards the latter town.He is invariably forced down on to the more battered side berms of the road by oncoming lorries with high and bulky loads of cotton in order to give way to the heavier vehicle.Since the last few years, the five months of cotton harvest season in the agency area brings untold misery for road users going to Asifabad as also the road connecting Nirmal and Luxettipet. Breaking every rule in the book associated not only with cotton trading but also with road transport safety, unscrupulous cotton traders transport cotton to Adilabad town round the clock.The ongoing road widening works has made the 62-km stretch even more dangerous, especially for car and two-wheeler drivers. One of the two sides of the road has been dug up along a good length of the road which further narrows down the space needed for four-wheelers and motorbikes to let heavily loaded pass by.As the height and bulk of the load is considerably higher than permitted by rule, there is danger of the given lorry toppling sideways if it gets down to the uneven side berm to let oncoming vehicles pass. “These lorries not only compel us to get off the road, but pose a danger to our lives when the motorised giants are passing by,” explained Chauhan Mohan Naik, an outdoor photographer from Jainoor mandal headquarter village, who often needs to take the road.“Loads cannot be more than 3.5 metres in height from the surface on which a given lorry stands,” said Adilabad Motor Vehicle Inspector G. Vivekanand Reddy, quoting the rule book. “Sideways or rear projections are completely banned,” he added.While the rules render such transportation of cotton from interior tribal belt of Adilabad as operations illegal, the penalty for breaking rules does not seem to be potent enough to act as a deterrence. “We can impose fine of only Rs. 1,000 for offences relating to bulky loads,” Mr. Reddy stated.“Nevertheless, the department will depute special squads in the area to control the trend. The squad will also be mandated to ensure loading as per rules,” he added of his department’s response to the issue.