http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/A-wacky-humorous-film/article14000721.ece

When actors don’t understand the importance of a script, choose not to be a part of it and instead insist on being seen in every frame, the stressed director comes out with an ode to the hero and not cinema. Sharwanand has been carefully choosing his subjects, genre and has upgraded himself as an actor over the years.In Express Raja , which is Merlapaka Gandhi’s second film, he allows himself to be a mere character in a hilarious ensemble cast and sets the stage for jokes on himself and interplay between multiple comedians.Prabhas Seenu, Saptagiri, Shakalaka Shankar and others with their erratic action and entertaining chemistry dish out a wacky humorous film. Sharwanand hates dogs, heroine Surbhi loves her pet dog Silky; there is a gangster who is behind the dog because a gem is hidden in its belt. Urvashi has a fetish for Sridevi films and she goes crazy watching Vasanta Kokila and grabs Silky, names it Subramanyam (Sridevi’s dog in the film).There are many more quirky characters who make endless cameos and each has a history.The director’s wit and creativity is upfront, his screenplay is fresh and amusing; brings out laughs from simple things like a book and emotions from a dog. The film could have done even without songs as the story is engaging with simple yet funny dialogues.Usually, after a journey movie like Venkatadri Express , directors are at loss deciding their genre. Gandhi sticks to what he is best at, another moving story, albeit on the road and sets a new benchmark in comedy without mimicking and imitating actors. Surbhi looks pretty. Though she has a small role she does her part well. Dhanraj makes an occasional entry, has a passion for accumulating iron and keeps stealing the metal from anywhere and everywhere. There is Harish Uttaman, a villain and there is a Samaritan angle to Surya, Brahmaji brings out his own brand of humour, he turns helpless watching his dictionaries being sold as weapons to keep away eve teasers. However, it is Shakalaka Shankar, Saptagiri, Prabhas Seenu who steal the show.Giving out any more details would be stripping the film of its suspense, watch the deftly crafted film for its writing and performances. If you are craving for a good movie this festival, then Express Raja is the one you can watch with the family.– Y. Sunita ChowdharyExpress RajaCast: Sharwanand, SurbhiDirection: Merlapaka GandhiMusic: Praveen LakkarajuPlot: A pet dog becomes a nucleus of an ensemble storyBottomline: Outrageously colourful and entertaining