http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/fashion/A-wardrobe-must-have/article13984407.ece

Blazers are must-haves: everyone should definitely invest in one. It is one of those pieces that will never go out of style, but it evolves so often that there is always a new, trendy type. It is also very androgynous; it can be feminine or masculine, can dress an outfit up or simplify it.If it’s your first time buying a blazer, then consider the dark, navy shades.Your second choice can be dark charcoal or any dark shade. These colours are neutral and can be worn for different occasions and paired up with various outfits from your wardrobe.The most important factor in choosing the style is the fit. You need to pick a style that complements your body. The sleeves of the blazer should be half an inch shorter than your shirt, leaving some space for your shirt’s cuffs to show.Choosing between single or double-breasted jackets also depends on your body type and height. If you are tall, double-breasted jackets are recommended.The horizontal position of the buttons will create an illusion of width; if you are short, buy a jacket with more than two vertical buttons to create an illusion of length.The three must-haves in your wardrobe:CLASSICOne of the great things about a classic fitted blazer is that you can pair it with just anything, and it will give you a very classy and stylish look for formal situations. The jacket should fit well right under the arms.There should be enough space to allow movement, but not so much that you feel the jacket slipping off. The bottom of the blazer should be just below the waistband, but never longer than that.How to wear it:One of the chicest ways to wear it is to pair it with distressed denim, although a pair of wide-legged trousers works equally well, channelling a sort of 70s vibe, that at the moment, is a bang on-trend.Investing in a well fitted classic black blazer is sophistication at its best, but it can be easily swayed to get a little edgy. You can pair this with denim, shorts, skirts, dresses, T-shirts, button-ups — you name it, it works.Black is the easiest to work into your wardrobe, and a classic cut will always be stylish, so spending a little more on a great blazer will be well worth it.BOYFRIENDThis style has been very popular for the last couple of years. Creating a business look with this blazer can be a little difficult because of its unconventional fit, but it will give you a very modern, edgy and casual look.Although baggy blazers have been around for decades, the modern boyfriend blazers combine modern fits with the casual look from the 80s.The shoulders are fitted, although the rest of it should fit more loosely and be long enough to cover your bottom; basically, it should look like you stole it from a boyfriend. These are best suited for people with a slender body type.How to wear it:Roll up your sleeves and pair this with leggings, slim pants or ripped denims. Preferably opt for a white one or any neutral shade to instantly brighten a look, and make even the basic casual look pulled together.CROPPEDThe “crop” in the cropped blazer is a much more subtle affair, and should hit you just at the waistline.It works well with just about anything, including as a layering piece with a longer, flowing blouse.How to wear it:A cropped blazer would look great paired with a high-waisted skirt.Investing in a cropped blazer with a bold colour or prints would make your outfit stand out, and can make your office wardrobe a little more colourful.When paired with skinny trousers and ballet flats or stilettos, it is a great juxtaposition of classic and modern that is universally flattering.