http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/op-ed/A-year-full-of-silver-screen-promises/article13975251.ece

Nothing will gladden Bollywood’s heart more in 2016 than a short and sweet word: hit. In fact, not one but several of them would be welcome. The industry that had been growing at a good pace in 2012 and 2013 has had a rather stagnant 2014 and 2015. “The fact that there has been no real growth in business since 2013, despite ticket prices increasing regularly, is a bad sign, as it means footfalls have fallen and the audience is slowly losing the habit of going to theatres, a habit that was picking up between 2008 to 2012 when the multiplex era was making an impact,” said Shailesh Kapoor, founder and CEO of Ormax Media Pvt. Ltd., a media and entertainment industry insights firm.On the positive side, no other year could have potential hits, nay blockbusters, written all over it like 2016 does. This year has all the three Khans throwing their collective weight behind it. Aamir Khan was missing in action in 2015, Shah Rukh Khan turned out a lacklustre Dilwale, and Salman Khan, after delivering the biggest blockbuster of 2015, Bajrangi Bhaijaan, followed it up with a middling Prem Ratan Dhan Payo.Khan biggiesMore than 20 kg heavier, Aamir will appear as a wrestler who trains his daughters in the sport in an orthodox village in Haryana, in Nitesh Tiwari’s Dangal, scheduled to release during Christmas. When the film begins, he is 27, then he enters his 40s and 50s. Inspired by the real-life story of former wrestler Mahavir Singh Phogat, the film has newcomers Fatima Sana Shaikh and Sanya Malhotra playing the daughters, Geeta and Babita.Eid boutThe big clash of 2016 will be on Eid day when Salman, set to do a bit of kushti as Haryanvi wrestler Sultan Ali Khan in Ali Abbas Zafar’s Sultan, will lock horns with Shah Rukh’s Raees. Shah Rukh plays a bootlegger indulging in illegal alcohol trade in ’90s’ Gujarat. Chasing him is Nawazuddin Siddiqui as the cop. The Rahul Dholakia film also stars popular Pakistani actress Mahira Khan of Bol fame.Once is not enoughSequels are also set to fuel the box office. These will be led by S.S. Rajamouli’s epic Baahubali: The Conclusion. Will it be twice as big? Will we know why Katappa killed Baahubali?The winning team of Vipul Shah and Akshay Kumar will be ready to go back to the U.K. with Namaste England.Shujaat Saudagar’s Rock On!! 2 starts where Rock On!! ended. The film stars the same three leads from the 2008 film. Shraddha Kapoor and Shashank ‘Titli’ Arora will be the new entrants.Sunny Deol directs and stars in Ghayal Once Again, the sequel to his ’90s super hit Ghayal. The Masti trio of Riteish Deshmukh, Vivek Oberoi and Aftab Shivdasani do some Great Grand Masti in 2016. The Houseful franchisee grows, with the comic multi-starrer Houseful 3.Raaz Reboot will be the fourth in the Raaz series from Vikram “horror factory” Bhatt.Fights factoryIt will be twice the action in John Abraham’s Force 2 and Vidyut Jamwal’s Commando 2. Jai Gangaajal will be about the first woman superintendent of police, played by Priyanka Chopra, of a Bihar district who goes gunning for the local MLA and his goons. Action against breathtaking locales unfolds in Ajay Devgn’s Shivaay, also directed by him. Hrithik Roshan takes on wild animals in Ashutosh Gowariker’s period romance Mohenjo Daro.Together againDum Laga Ke Haisha’s Bhumi Pednekar loses weight and joins Ayushmann Khurrana again in Sameer Sharma’s Manmarziyan. Ranbir Kapoor reunites with his Barfi! director Anurag Basu and also his lady-love Katrina Kaif in the musical mystery Jagga Jasoos. Sajid Nadiadwala, Sabbir Khan and Tiger Shroff join again for Baaghi: A rebel for love after the successful Heropanti.Getting sportySudha Kongara Prasad’s Saala Khadoos has real-life boxer, Ritika Singh, playing the lead role. Amole Gupte directs a biopic on the life of Indian badminton champ Saina Nehwal. Tony D’Souza looks at the fortunes of India’s most controversial cricket captain in Azhar, with Emraan Hashmi stepping into the shoes of Mohammad Azharuddin. Meanwhile, Neeraj Pandey’s M.S. Dhoni: The Untold Story, with Sushant Singh Rajput as Dhoni, promises to be the biggest sports biopic to be made in India.Real/ReelRaja Krishna Menon’s Airlift looks at the aerial evacuation of Indians based in Kuwait during the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait in 1990. Hansal Mehta’s Aligarh is based on the life of Dr. Shrinivas Ramchandra Siras, played by Manoj Bajpayee, who was ousted from Aligarh Muslim University for homosexuality and was later found dead under mysterious circumstances. Omung Kumar’s Sarbjit is based on the true story of the Indian farmer, Sarabjit Singh, who was convicted of espionage and terrorism in Pakistan. The film is told from Sarabjit’s sister’s perspective, played by Aishwarya Rai. Ram Madhvani’s Neerja, based on the life of air hostess Neerja Bhanot of the 1986 Pan Am hijack, stars Sonam Kapoor in the lead.Love is all around you…Rakeysh Omprakash Mehra directs his first love story based on the legend of Mirza and Sahiban. It will launch Anil Kapoor’s son Harshvardhan Kapoor and Tanvi Azmi’s niece Saiyami Kher. Sidharth Malhotra and Fawad Khan vie for Alia Bhatt, with Rishi Kapoor looking on as the patriarch, in Shakun Batra’s Kapoor and Sons.Odd coupleFrench-Iranian actress Golshifteh Farahani has been cast in the lead role alongside Irrfan Khan in Anup Singh’s TheSong of Scorpions, a tale of love and revenge set in the Thar desert. R. Balki’s Ki and Ka, about the everyday problems in a marriage, sees the unusual pairing of Arjun Kapoor as the house husband and Kareena Kapoor as the working wife. After Kai Po Che, Abhishek Kapoor returns with Fitoor, a Great Expectations-inspired love story set in Kashmir with Aditya Roy Kapur romancing Katrina Kaif for the first time. Katrina gets paired with Sidharth Malhotra in Nitya Mehra’s romance Baar Baar Dekho.HatkeShahid Kapoor, Saif Ali Khan and Kangana Ranaut star in Vishal Bhardwaj’s most expensive and most musical film, Rangoon. Bhardwaj’s protégé Abhishek Chaubey casts an eye on the rampant drug problem in Punjab through Udta Punjab.Small films, big hopesBikas Mishra’s Chauranga, Rahi Anil Barve’s Tumbad, Nagesh Kukunoor’s Dhanak, Prashant Nair’s Umrika, Anu Menon’s Waiting… We are waiting for them to come to a screen near us soon.namrata.joshi@thehindu.co.in