http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/A-%E2%80%98Kill-House%E2%80%99-to-hone-search-skills/article14026654.ece

A team of the Navy’s specialised Sagar Prahari Bal (SPB) personnel in combat overalls slithers down from a helicopter to the deck of a non-compliant cargo ship, which is heading to the harbour.In groups, they move to the Bridge and to the compartments of the vessel and subsequently run into a terrorist holed up in one of them. After hauling a scare charger — a sonic weapon used to disorient and immobilise the target — into the compartment, they barge in to take the terrorist into custody.The entire action, played out at a mock-up of a merchant ship at the Navy’s missile and gunnery school INS Droncharya in Kochi, is video-recorded in great detail for analysis at debriefing. ‘Kill House’, as it has been named, is among the latest additions to the school’s top-notch training facilities.“This was set up in 2014 to put the SPB personnel through their paces in room intervention tactics,” says Captain Satish Shenai, commanding officer of Dronacharya.The training is given by personnel drafted in from the Navy’s elite Marine Commandos (Marcos).Slithering ops“The search party must be inserted on a non-compliant ship using a helicopter. Which was why we set up this replica from which they practise slithering ops,” he explains, pointing to the tail section of a helicopter atop the Kill House.Dronacharya trains personnel of the SPB, carved out in the aftermath of the 26/11 Mumbai attacks, to safeguard naval harbours and assets. “Like gunnery sailors and officers, the crew of SPB that mans the naval fast interceptor crafts (FICs) spends two weeks at Dronacharya to train in unarmed combat, slithering, rappelling down stacked up containers for search and room intervention,” says Lieutenant Commander V.T. Alexander, in-charge of training for SPB at Dronacharya.The unarmed combat or physical defence, as the sailors demonstrate, comprises everything from maintaining stature to methodical search and frisking of compliant and hostile suspects, to defence and control using non-lethal weapons and immobilisers.Virtual reality packageA room nearby exploits a virtual reality package to train personnel in general service weapons such as the INSAS rifle, pistol and carbine. “Some 60 scenarios can be simulated across the wall where targets pop up at random. The weapons used for the practice are all real and act real. Only, there are no bullets. A laser-based mechanism is used to do the firing, with auto-loading of virtual ammunition. At the end of a session, a chunk of data on the performance of each shooter is made available for analysis and correction,” points out Lt Cdr Alexander.