http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/A-props-a-play/article13980917.ece

Intrigued by conversations about How Cow Now Cow’s successful staging across different venues in the city, I decided to watch the performance, recently. A group of children with their parents trooped into Hang Out Library and Activity Centre, tucked away in a corner of Bellandur, on a Sunday evening to see how the story of Rosamma, the cow, would unfold.Directed by Vinod Ravindran and presented by Sandbox Collective, How Cow Now Cow began with a surprise that took us time to recover from. Not to worry. It wasn’t bad at all. Let me just say it was an unpleasant-pleasant surprise, so to speak. But it achieved the desired effect — it ensured we didn’t budge from seats, waiting for what happens next.The three actors / storytellers, Rency Philip, Sachin Gurjale and Abubakar Siddiq, using props and powerful histrionic skills, told the story of the complaining and dominating Rosamma who creates hell and havoc for her friends—a pig, a hen, a fish and a dog— in the farm where they live. The trio took us through the various landscapes where the story was set, and into the hearts and minds of the well-etched characters.A children’s play may seem easy as apple pie. But How Cow Now Cow proved just the opposite. To pull off a performance with actors moving in and out of multiple characters, using elements of object theatre and shadow puppetry, and that too in an intimate space requires extraordinary skill and concentration. The various sub plots were seamlessly stitched together. The highlight, though, was the stunning transition from shadow puppetry to object theatre, which the actors achieved without missing a beat.The performance was made even more charming with the English-Kannada dialogues and by the fact that the children were actively engaged in the performance. It was for the first time, perhaps, we saw children reluctant to leave, unwilling to believe the performance had come to an end.That said, some parts of the story needed a little bit of tightening. Also, even though the intent was to perform at an unconventional, intimate space, sometimes a space can pose restrictions to a performance. Nevertheless, the actors made best use of the space available. This review would be incomplete without a line about the props, which ranged from a mop to a helmet. The actors made these the unforgettable stars of the show. And that’s what makes How Cow Now Cow worth a watch.