http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/news/AAP-demands-CBI-probe-into-multi-crore-irrigation-scam/article14000465.ece

The Aam Aadmi Party on Thursday demanded a CBI probe into 88 undated tenders in the register maintained by the Water Resources Department during the Cong-NCP rule. The party also accused the Devendra Fadnavis government of not conducting an impartial probe in a Rs 76,000-crore irrigation scam.Vijay Pandhare, former chief engineer of the Irrigation Department and the whistleblower in the 2013 irrigation scam, said the tenders were recorded without specific dates. The dubious dates were among the seven points mentioned in the Madhav Chitale Committee report that probed the irrigation scam.Mr Pandhare said the report recommended that the government investigate these seven points separately as they fell outside the panel’s ambit. The 13,412-page Chitale committee report, contained in two volumes, was submitted to the government on June 14, 2014. “The Devendra Fadnavis government is yet to act on the recommendations,” Mr Pandhare said at a press conference.He said as per procedure the Minister for Water Resources makes an entry with specific dates in the tender code register when the Principal Secretary sends a tender for approval. When the Minister approves the tender, an entry is again made in the register and the file is routed back to the Principal Secretary.Mr Pandhare alleged that tenders were approved only after bribes were paid. “The register can provide the investigating agency clues into which period the transactions took place. If the CBI carefully checks the register, they will find that the corrupt have left a clear trail of their misdeeds,” said Mr Pandhare, who contested the Lok Sabha polls as AAP’s Nashik candidate.He said the Chitale report gave the chronology of the irrigation tenders accepted by the Water Resources Ministry. “Why has the Anti Corruption Bureau ignored the 88 undated tenders? If the agency investigates, it will find enough evidence of culpability. But when BJP leaders are seen in Baramati, why will the ACB investigate this?”Three BJP leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Finance Minister Arun Jaitley, and Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis, visited Baramati for different programmes, which were hosted by NCP chief Sharad Pawar and his family.Mr. Pandhare demanded that the CBI also investigate the six other points mentioned in the report, including misuse of provision of Rule 38 of tender rules. The rule provides for merging different works without following regular tender procedure. The other points the report recommended included sanction of mobilisation advances for pre-preparations without proper explanation, updation of cost estimates for acceptance of tenders, inclusion of non-construction work such as vehicles and computers in the tender for construction, the weight of wheel gates of irrigation projects, and the drawings and designs made by the contractors under the tenders.Mr Pandhare said the Aam Aadmi Party would not have any option but to approach the Bombay High Court with a petition for a high-court monitored probe into these aspects of the irrigation scam.