http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/AAP-govt-floats-elevated-BRT-corridors/article14022052.ece

week after starting the dismantling process of the Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) Corridor from Ambedkar Nagar to Moolchand, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday announced that the city will have elevated BRT corridors.To study the concept, PWD Minister Satyendar Jain, along with civic engineers, will be visiting Malaysia and work out the feasibility by mid-February.In an elevated BRT corridor, the bus lane is elevated like a Metro line while the surface road is used by other vehicles like any other conventional road.“This could work in congested areas,” said SK Srivastava, engineer-in chief, PWD, “But it is still in conceptualisation stage and we haven’t decided the location to start the project from”.The move comes in the wake of augmenting public transport after the ‘success’ of the odd-even scheme. On January 15, Mr. Kejriwal had said that buses were less crowded as they were able to make more trips than usual during the 15-day experiment. “The reason was that the buses weren’t getting stuck in jams and were able to make more rounds. If buses can move faster, people will prefer taking them.” PWD engineers said that the purpose of this elevated road is to ensure that buses move faster.But the concept of an elevated BRT corridor, which the AAP minister and engineers are going abroad to study, isn’t new in Delhi. Back in 2009, the Congress government had planned to construct the East-West Corridor from Anand Vihar to Punjabi Bagh via New Delhi railway station on the same lines. Again in 2011, the Sheila Dikshit government had tried to revive the project.The government even appointed Urban Mass Transit Company (UMTC) as consultants to prepare a feasibility report. It was proposed that of the 20.98km long stretch, 9.8km will be elevated and meant only for buses. But the project never took off.Sources in the PWD said that when the AAP government decided to scrap the BRT corridor, the concept of elevated BRT corridor was brought up. “We had then proposed to convert the existing BRT corridor into an elevated one. But the government went ahead with dismantling it,” said an official.It took Rs 190 crore for the Congress government to construct the 3.8km long BRT corridor and Rs 10.9 crore for the AAP government to demolish it.