http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/AAP-MLA%E2%80%99s-husband-granted-bail/article14002057.ece

A Delhi court on Saturday granted bail to the husband of AAP MLA Parmila Tokas in two separate cases of allegedly making casteist remarks against a Dalit woman and assaulting a government official. Ms. Tokas is the Aam Aadmi Party’s MLA from R.K. Puram.The police had arrested Dheeraj on Friday after he failed to respond to notices asking him to join the investigation. Dheeraj had approached the Delhi High Court earlier too seeking anticipatory bail in the assault case. The court had dismissed his plea on January 8.Metropolitan Magistrate Dheeraj Mittal granted him bail on furnishing two personal bonds of Rs. 40,000 each with two sureties of the like amount.The counsel for the investigating agency opposed the bail, arguing that Dheeraj could tamper with evidence, and urged the court to send him to judicial custody.Police had lodged the assault case on December 15 based on a complaint by a CPWD official alleging that he was beaten up by several women at the behest of Dheeraj and other AAP workers during the removal of unauthorised slums in Sector 12 of R. K. Puram.Later, a Dalit woman lodged a complaint against the MLA’s husband alleging that the accused had made derogatory remarks against her during the same incident.Party reactsThe Aam Aadmi Party reacted to Dheeraj Tokas’s arrest, maintaining that he tried to stop an anti-encroachment drive that would have rendered people homeless in the winter. “After the Shakur Basti demolition, criticism poured in as people were braving the winters without shelters. We aren’t against civic agencies doing their work, but why do they have to do it in winters,” said a party spokesperson.The party said that it will wait for the police investigation as Dheeraj Tokas has also been arrested for making casteist remarks. “Let the police investigate. But they should act this swiftly in every case,” the spokesperson said.Dheeraj was arrested on Friday after he failed to respond to notices asking him to join the investigation