http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/Accident-relief-scheme-launch-endlessly-awaits-CM%E2%80%99s-date/article14018743.ece

When Bengaluru–Ernakulam Intercity Express derailed on February 13 last year, Health Minister U.T. Khader, who visited the accident spot, called up a senior official to check if the injured could be provided immediate treatment under the Chief Minister’s Swantana Yojana.The official had to remind the Minister that the scheme was yet to be launched although it was ready for implementation. Till date, the scheme is yet to take off. And shockingly, officials say that what is holding up this important scheme is their inability to get the Chief Minister’s date for its launch.Swantana Yojana has been planned to cover treatment costs of an accident victim up to Rs. 25,000 for the first 48 hours in hospital. Announced in the 2014 budget, it was designed for road traffic accident victims who often lose precious golden hours lying unattended on the road.Repeated postponementsAfter repeated postponements, this time the project was slated to be launched on January 8 and almost all arrangements were made and printing of invitation cards too had begun. But it was postponed again as the Chief Minister was out of town.A senior official from the Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust, which has been entrusted the project’s implementation, told The Hindu that the scheme was now likely to be launched only after the zilla and taluk panchayat elections. This means that it will take off till at least by the end of February.Under the scheme, treatment cost of an accident victim up to Rs. 25,000 for the first 48 hours in hospital will be borne by the State government. “This would not deter anyone from getting the accident victim to the hospital at the earliest,” the Health Minister had said while announcing the scheme.Based on the condition of the victim, he/she can choose to get treatment in the same hospital or the hospital of his/her choice after 48 hours. “The victim would have gained consciousness within 48 hours and the relatives of the victim, who would have come by then, would be in a better position to take a decision,” he had said.Swantana schemeIt was announced in the2014 budgetIt has been planned to cover initial treatment costs of an accident victimVictim eligible for free treatment up to Rs. 25,000for first 48 hours