http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/Accused-to-move-court-seeking-quashing-of-FIR/article14008887.ece

Some of the persons, whose names figured in the criminal case related to the suicide are planning to move the court seeking quashing of the First Information Report (FIR) in the case.The FIR was issued against five persons, including the Union Minister for Labour Bandaru Dattatreya and MLC Ramchander Rao, invoking Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the IPC, and the Prevention of Atrocities against Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Act. The complaint was lodged by a student, D. Prashanth.Along with the Minister and the MLC, names of UoH Vice-Chancellor P. Appa Rao and two students –Susheel Kumar and Krishna Chaitanya figured in the FIR.While the complainant held the five persons responsible for Rohit’s suicide, they contend in private discussions that they were being dragged into the case without their direct or indirect involvement. “When there is no direct connection between the suicide and the persons named in the case, the latter have an option to move the court. We hope the court will agree with our point,” said an associate of one of the persons named in the FIR. They, however, didn’t want to go on record about the legal options they are pursuing stating that the “situation is volatile now.”“Moreover, anything we speak openly now may be construed as an influence on the ongoing inquiries ordered by the Central Government,” he informed The Hindu . In cases of abetment to suicide, the main task of the investigators is to gather evidence to prove that the actions initiated by the accused compelled the victim to end life.“It is true that it is a complex case but we will examine every detail and record statements of everyone directly or indirectly connected to the case,” top Cyberabad police officials said. Under the Prevention of Atrocities against the SC and ST Act, the investigators are collecting all documents related to the victim as per established procedure.BJP leader facesstudents’ ireMeanwhile, students forced BJP leader Prakash Reddy to leave the university and damaged the windscreen of his car when he went to the campus on Tuesday evening.The trouble began at around 7 p.m. when Mr. Reddy in his Toyota Innova vehicle went to the campus on some work. Students who recognised him sat in front of the vehicle while a few of them damaged the rear windscreen of the car.The police who were present in large numbers in view of the heightened tension on campus intervened and escorted him safely out of the campus.No case was registered in this regard as Mr. Reddy did not make any complaint till reports last came in.