http://www.thehindu.com/sport/cricket/Activist-questions-selector%E2%80%99s-%E2%80%98loyalty%E2%80%99/article14008096.ece

Vikram Rathour, North Zone’s representative on BCCI’s senior selection panel, holds a British passport. Questioning the former India opener’s “loyalty”, Mumbai-based activist Niraj Gunde has shot off a complaint to BCCI ombudsman Justice (retd.) Ajit Prakash Shah.The Hindu is in possession of both the complaint as well as a copy of the ‘photo page’ of Rathour’s passport.Even though the BCCI’s Memorandum and Rules and Regulations do not state that a selector must be a citizen of India, Rathour’s case is a curious one.“This letter is an official complaint against the senior selection committee member, Mr. Vikram Rathour. I wish to point out that Mr. Vikram Rathour is a UK citizen and copy of his passport is attached. His loyalty to the BCCI itself is conflicted and he has no business in the BCCI,” said Gunde’s letter to the ombudsman dated January 18.Rathour’s passport number is 099186733. It was issued on May 17, 2010, and expires on May 20, 2020. The ombudsman’s office has also received conflict of interest allegations against Sourav Ganguly and Harbhajan Singh. It has given both 14 days’ time to reply.The office of the ombudsman has also received a complaint against Nishant Arora, the media manager of the Indian team.Gunde has alleged that Nishant, a former journalist, used to manage the off-field activities of Harbhajan Singh and Yuvraj Singh. “In addition, Mr. Nishant Arora’s wife, Ms. Neha Soni, is a director of a company called Final Score Management Private Limited.”“This company runs cricket academies associated with Yuvraj Singh and Harbhajan Singh.”“In addition, Final Score has opened a centre in Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association’s ground.” Gunde wrote.Nishant was not available for comment but a source in the BCCI said: “Before he took over in May 2015, he was asked to not work with any cricketer on an independent basis.“And he has not done any[thing] of that nature. He is employed with the BCCI, and that’s his only job.”The office of the ombudsman has asked the BCCI to file its response by February 2.