http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/kozhikode/Action-committee-seeks-review-meeting/article13983242.ece

: Dismayed over the attitude of the Revenue Department, the Mananchira-Vellimadukunnu Action Committee has asked Minister for Social Justice and Panchayats M.K. Muneer and District Collector N. Prasanth to call a meeting to review the progress of the widening of the 8.4-km Mananchira-Vellimadukunnu stretch of the National Highway.Action committee president M.G.S. Narayanan, working president Mathew Kattikkana and general secretary M.P. Vasudevan said Dr. Muneer, who is in charge of the Kozhikode City Road Improvement Project (KCRIP), and Mr. Prasanth, implementation officer, had not held a meeting since March 28, 2015. A high-level meeting called by Chief Minister Oommen Chandy in Thiruvananthapuram had earlier decided that monthly meetings should be held in the district to review the road development projects, they said.The office-bearers said meetings had been convened at least four times last year. But, all of them were cancelled at the last minute for various reasons.Mr. Vasudevan said the State government had finally released the promised second instalment of Rs. 29 crore recently. About Rs. 25 crore would be spent on land acquisition and the remaining Rs.4 crore would be utilised to construct a compound wall to prevent encroachments upon government land falling in the alignment of the National Highway.This called for a meeting to discuss the issues in connection with road development. In fact, the amount was sanctioned when the action committee started an agitation in October. Subsequently, an order was issued on the eve of the announcement of the three-tier local bodies polls.The government had given Rs. 25 crore as first tranche for the road widening project.However the Revenue Department had decided to use the funds to improve the Malaparamba junction. Thus the department acquired some land and taken into possession about 40 shops.As per official estimate, an amount of Rs.306.5 crore is required to acquire 7.3632 hectares for the road widening project. But the government needs to sanction Rs 64 crore to give priority to the development of the road to solve the traffic congestion on the National Highway.Similarly the rehabilitation package for the displaced shopkeepers should be implemented without delay. The action committee would again approach the Chief Minister and other Ministers to release more funds for this mega project, Mr. Vasudevan said.