http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/Adilabad-likely-to-face-water-crisis/article14013915.ece

With the fast plunging underground water level in Adilabad, authorities anticipate drinking water availability to turn progressively into a crisis starting February. A contingency plan has been put in place, but there seems to be no movement as far as government approval to it is concerned.The rainfall during last monsoon saw 30 of the 52 mandals recording normal rainfall at about 84 cm against the average normal of 110 cm, but percolation has obviously not taken place as usual given the level of water on the ground. The rate of depletion is also considered to be faster in this period of the year, characterised by absence of a cold wave and days being hotter than usual.The water level has plunged from 7.81 in November to 8.83 in December last year, an unusual phenomenon in the winter which is rather harsh in this district. “Our well has some water at present, but it does not seem to last for long,” pointed out Kodapa Mothibai, the Sarpanch of Pipri gram panchayat in Narnoor mandal, as she indicates the status of water availability in the perennially water shortage area in Adilabad uplands.“The tube well at Chirra Kondi has already dried up,” she added quickly, anxious to depict the urgency in the evolving situation. The well supplying water to habitations in this gram panchayat is located 2 km away from Pipri and the Adivasis here are already dreading the prospect of fetching drinking water from a source located 5 km away.“As many as 374 habitations in the district may require transportation of drinking water eventually during the summer season,” stated Rural Water Supply Adilabad Superintending Engineer S.N. Murthy. “We have sent a proposal worth Rs. 27 crore for not only transporting water but to revive the defunct sources, mostly bore-wells and open wells in the tribal belt,” he explained. “The RWS is already supplying water through tankers to Bidrelli village. Tanur mandal headquarters could be the next as it is on the verge of crisis,” said Collector M. Jagan Mohan as he talked about the water situation. “We will handle the situation in summer as the government is likely to clear the proposal soon,” he hoped.