http://www.thehindu.com/sport/football/Afghanistan-wants-to-exit-regional-tournament-on-a-high/article13977157.ece

In professional sports, to rest on your laurels is a step backwards. Chances are that you will stagnate. Afghanistan has realised that it has outgrown the SAFF football championship.From now on, Afghanistan will be competing in the newly-formed Central Asian Football Association (CAFA). Ranked 150 by FIFA, Afghanistan will be very much the underdogs in the region where Iran is the super power.Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan are all ranked higher than Afghanistan. But Afghanistan knows very well that the only way forward is to play regularly with tougher opponents.“We’ve made some decision to change the future of Afghanistan football. I hope someday we develop and fulfil Afghanistan’s dream and go to Asia Cup and the World Cup. Who says that’s not possible? That is our dream, for the supporters, our people, and for the players.“We want to be in a big tournament. And that is why we are changing federations. We see that many things we have done in the last few years were good, but we’ve come to a point where we want to develop more.“We need a different situation, different preparation and different opponents. This decision is not against SAFF but this is for the good future of Afghanistan football,” says Petar Segrt, the Afghanistan coach.Playing for the peopleAt every opportunity Segrt keeps repeating that his team is playing for the people back home. Football brings hope to the people in a country which is ravaged by war and where many innocent people die every day.“We want to make millions back home happy with wins on the football field,” remarks the Croatian-born coach.“Millions are watching these games back home. Every game we win, every time we play good, it makes 30-35 million people happy. That is important for the players. It doesn’t matter where we come from, outside of Afghanistan or from inside. We play for Afghanistan,” adds captain Faysal Shayesteh.“We’ve taken a big step forward in the last two years and Afghanistan’s football has developed every year. We want that to continue.”Fifteen of the 20 players in the squad play outside the country. They have made Afghans a class apart in this tournament. But the domestic structure is not too strong and the football season is just three months.“The Afghanistan Football Association and coach Segrt are taking sincere efforts to help Afghanistan reach the next level.“I took the decision to stay in Kabul. I feel any national coach should reside in the country he is contracted with. I am lucky I have a heavy security but players, when they came for the first time, were scared.“During the photo-shoot just before we came here, there was a bomb blast and I feared for the safety of the players,’’ said the coach.Irrespective of the result on Sunday, Afghanistan has earned the respect and love of fans and rivals alike. Afghanistan, the big fish in a small pond that is the SAFF Suzuki Cup, wants to exit a regional tournament with a bang.