http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/Afghan-youth-held-for-duping-MP/article14012740.ece

The Delhi Police’s elite crime branch has arrested a man posing as a translator to dupe an Afghanistan MP, who is in Delhi for heart treatment.Among the stolen items were three gun licenses and the MP’s identity card, sending the Delhi Police in a tizzy. As a result, the case was immediately handed over to the elite crime branch, which arrested the suspect within hours of the case being reported. Noorullah Arab, a 21-year-old native of Afghanistan, had arrived in Delhi in March with his mother and siblings. Claiming to be a boxer, he obtained his primary education in Pakistan.Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime) Ravindra Yadav said Noorullah has cheated more visitors from his country by posing as a translator upon their arrival in Delhi. Investigations are on to identify his other victims.Noorullah approached Afghanistan MP Sayed Ghulam Farooq Mirranay directly at the Delhi airport on Sunday night and offered to translate for him. They arrived at Amar Hotel in Lajpat Nagar, from where Dr. Mirranay was to visit Max Hospital the next day for treatment. It was while the MP was in the washroom of his hotel room that Noorullah fled with his belongings.The stolen items comprised his three arms licenses, including that of an AK-47 rifle, his wallet, identity card, passport, an iPhone, $4,600 and debit/credit cards. Dr. Mirranay was left only his clothes and no money to buy even water, an investigator told The Hindu .“Unlike most foreign national victims, Dr. Mirranay chose to discuss the incident with the Afghanistan Embassy, which advised him to approach the police,” he said.A case was registered at Lajpat Nagar police station and the crime branch roped in. A team under the supervision of DCP Bhisham Singh and comprising of Inspector Atul Tyagi, was constituted to urgently recover the stolen items. “Since the stolen items included an arms license for an AK-47 rifle as well as his ID card, there was a possibility of it being misused by terrorists ahead of the Republic Day celebrations,” said Mr. Yadav.The police obtained the suspect’s mobile number from the MP and put it on surveillance. Within hours, the suspect was traced to Kasturba Niketan in Lajpat Nagar- II. The police could recover only $500 of the total stolen cash, besides the arms licences, passport and other items.“The accused was in an inebriated state when arrested on Monday,” said an investigator.The incident, meanwhile, has delayed the MP’s departure to his country.