http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Visakhapatnam/After-a-long-wait-LED-lights-glow-on-highway-in-city/article13999152.ece

LED lights installed at Visalakshinagar and Zoo Park between Yendada and Hanumanthavaka were switched on Wednesday evening by HRD Minister Ganta Srinivasa Rao.The installation of the central LED lights brings to an end a long wait for lighting on this stretch of the National Highway.There has been a persistent demand for lighting on the 9 km stretch between Hanumanthavaka and Kommadi citing security concerns as well as frequent accidents. Though the administrative sanction had been given in 2010, the agreement was entered in 2012.After failure by the contractor to execute the work, complaints of poor quality poles, litigation between the contractor and GVMC, the work has again been given to him.Of the 300 poles required, 150 erected and lights fixed on the stretch from Hanumanthavaka to the Yendada Petrol Pump, approximately 4.5 km.Extension beyond Kommadi and on the Bhimili road will be taken up later, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said.With the installation of over 93,000 lights Visakhapatnam has become famous as the City of LED Lights, the Minister said. It also resulted in conservation of 40 per cent power. As many as 9000 more LED lights would be installed soon.He said at various busy junctions 32 high mast lights will be installed. Two such lights will be put up at Silparamam and Zoo Park too.Mr. Srinivasa Rao lauded the efforts of GVMC in power conservation and congratulated Municipal Commissioner Pravin Kumar and electrical engineers on the corporation receiving two conservation awards at the national-level.Mr. Pravin Kumar and Superintendent Engineer Ananda Rao participated.Road-sweeping machineThe Municipal Commissioner on Tuesday saw the working of road-sweeping machine and said it would help maintain sanitation better. The machine has the capacity to sweep 1 km per hour.Mr. Pravin Kumar said the 10 Bob-Cats, UGD cleaner and septi-clean equipment was acquired during the just-concluded “Janmabhoomi- Maa Vooru” programme and it would help in realising the goal of Swachh Visakha.