http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/After-science-congress-delegates-explore-Mysuru/article13987632.ece

It was finally time for delegates at the science congress to explore Mysuru, the country’s most preferred tourist destination.Over 15,000 delegates, who attended the five-day mega national event that began on January 3, had a tight schedule attending lecture sessions, special sessions and sectional programmes of top scientists.With the wrapping up of the annual event on Thursday, many delegates stayed back to explore Mysuru and its most famous tourist destinations. It’s was their first visit to Mysuru for many.A professor from the university said: “The delegates had no time to go around and sight-see as the schedule was hectic and they could not afford to miss talks or sessions. For the next couple of days, they can tour the city and enjoy its beauty.”Scientists, research scholars and students had come from as far as the north east and also from union territories like Andaman and Nicobar Islands. There are also foreign delegates.With Mysuru enjoying the reputation and status of being a city of palaces and heritage structures, many delegates, some of them with their families, opted to stay back for the next couple of days.‘Atithi Devo Bhava’Incidentally, in his speech at the inauguration of the science congress, Chief Minister Siddaramaiah had urged the delegates to visit places of historical importance here. “Mysuru practices the concept of Atithi Devo Bhava by showing and showering all affection and warmth to guests. I’m sure you will tour the city,” he had said.Niranjan Vanahalli, Director, Centre for Proficiency Development and Placement Services, University of Mysore, who coordinated the media coverage of the event, told The Hindu : “Some delegates are camping here for a couple of days more to explore Mysuru and its tourism. Some delegates from West Bengal are staying back to see the city. It’s understandable that since they have come from far-away places, they would like to see the city.”The main entrance of Manasagangotri, the sprawling campus of the University of Mysore, which got a grand makeover with a statue of poet laureate Kuvempu, was teeming with delegates on all days. They clicked pictures in memory of their visit. The venue of the science congress was busy with taxis and autorickshaws picking up delegates to take them around after the event concluded. University professors are guiding delegates in planning their tour itinerary for the next couple of days. The delegates were treated with cultural programmes every evening to introduce them to the State’s rich culture.