http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Thiruvananthapuram/Agasthyarkoodam-trek-open-from-January-15/article13978185.ece

It is that time of the year again when trekkers can hope to scale the towering Agasthyarkoodam either for spiritual solace or some exhilarating adventure.From January 15, Agasthyarkoodam, which is part of the Western Ghats, will be opened for pilgrims and trekkers.At 1,868 metres above sea level, Agasthyarkoodam is among the highest peaks in Kerala. It is part of the Agasthyamala Biosphere Reserve, which included the Neyyar, Peppara and Shendurney wildlife sanctuaries in Kerala, and the Kalakkad-Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve in Tamil Nadu, among others.The Agasthya hills are naturally blessed with several rare species of herbs and medicinal plants. These included Tricopus zeylanicus travanicoricus , locally known as Arogyapacha , which has been proved to be effective for its immunity-enhancing, liver-protective and anti-fatigue properties. It is also believed to be home to some endangered animal species.Moreover, Agasthyarkoodam is also the source of some rivers including the Kallada river, Karamana river, Neyyar river, Vamanapuram river and Achencoil river, besides the Thamirabarani river, Ramanadhi river, and Manimuthar river in Tamil Nadu.The entry to the area, which is a pilgrim centre, is controlled by the Forest Department that has made arrangements for the upcoming season. Those interested will be able to visit Agasthyarkoodam from January 15, the Makaravilakku day, for a period for 53 days until March 7, when Maha Shivaratri will be celebrated.The passes for visiting the hills will be issued by the Forest Department from 11 a.m. on January 11 onwards. Bookings can be made through the official portal of the department.100 passes a dayAccording to Sunil Sahadevan, Wildlife Warden, Thiruvananthapuram Wildlife Warden, the maximum number of passes that will be issued for each day has been limited to 100. He added that all passes for the 38 days, when the trekking was facilitated during the previous year, ran out within an hour of the commencement of online booking. A similar rush was expected this time around as well, he says.Guides to be deployedGuides have been roped in by the Eco-Development Committee to assist the trekkers who will cover a distance of 24 km. A temporary camp shed and canteen facilities have been put in place for the trekkers. Each pass will cost Rs.500 per person. “While nearly one-third of the amount will go to the State treasury, the remaining will be used for the welfare of the local community,” Mr. Sahadevan said.Further details regarding the visit to Agasthyarkoodam can be obtained by contacting the office of the wildlife warden at 0471-2360762.