http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Age-no-bar-dreams-no-bar/article14009976.ece

We all believe in ‘Teach em’ young’ but we also love the saying ‘age is just a number’ especially when you are on the wrong side of that age. While most of us love to hear the ‘number’ saying while blowing the candles of the birthday cake, there are some who live by the saying and pursue those unfulfilled dreams before it’s too late. Something like the Abbott ad where the grandmother is riding a cycle down a slope while exclaiming delightfully, ‘ Oh Tipu dekh, main ud rahi hoon’ much to the fear and later delight of her young grandson. Living life to the fullest, need not always be about driving fancy cars and going on lavish holidays. For some it could be learning to drive a car, or go sailing, taking part in a marathon, a duathlon or even something as simple as wanting to hit the gym at 60 years of age and never missing a day unless it is a forced holiday. With the marathon mania really catching up in a good way, it isn’t only the young ones who are running up slopes to complete a marathon. With the determination to do it at least once in a lifetime, it has become a passion with some who are nearly touching 50. Reason? “It is about doing something I haven’t done. I might be slow, but I am not incapable of doing it. With a few months of training and preparation, I have done marathons, duathlons and I now aim for a triathlon,” says Padmini Kumar, interior designer.Reasons could be many, but all it takes is the determination and a true spirit. That’s why while most of us were probably still hunting for a ‘proper pool’ to swim or even learn to swim, 55-year-old Janaki Ganesh along with friend and neighbour N. Kamakshi is in the pool by 7.30 am “Our biggest struggle was about looking for a swimwear. I also have a fear of water, that’s the reason I have been postponing it for very long. Now I might not be a water babe but I can swim up to 5 feet. Even that is no mean task, I say,” giggles Janaki. And guess what, swimming is helping her overcome arthritis and back pain, though she hadn’t started swimming as a solution to her health concerns. As the saying ‘different strokes for different folks’ goes, there are many ways to realise one’s dreams and aspiration. Options are not always available only in outdoor activities. There are a few who aspired to be chefs and entrepreneurs. Manju Kumar was one of them. Not wanting to let her desire to be a chef die, Manju capitalised on a talent that she was most proud of — making and selling pickles. With a little help from friends and family on social media, she started her business online. Today, though it doesn’t bring in much moolah, she sees herself living the dream. Then there are some others who have turned chefs and are hosting lunches and dinners professionally. At the Yatch club in the city, the scene is slightly different. Suheim Sheikh organises fun rides for young beginners but that is attracting a lot of ‘odd-age’ learners. A dentist-photographer and a mother of two, went to the club to introduce her daughters to the fun of sailing, but ended up in a yatch to accompany them.Much to her surprise, she enjoyed every moment of the ride. “Sailing requires a lot of strength and stamina and also a good workout technique. I wasn’t sure if I would take it up, but now I am a fan. As a result, I seem to be wanting to do the same often,” says Namrata Rupani.She is not alone. Suheim says two elderly gentlemen, ex-army officers are keen on learning to sail too and “that only goes to encourage a lot of others.”