http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Agitated-farmers-lay-siege-to-irrigation-SE%E2%80%99s-office/article14024264.ece

Hundreds of farmers of Nandikotkur constituency besieged the office of Irrigation Superintending Engineer S. Chandrasekhara Rao here on Wednesday, demanding that KC Canal water be released to save the standing crops and meet the drinking water needs of people.Led by Rythu Hakkula Sadhana Samithi president V. Janardhana Reddy, Nandikotkur market committee president G.V. Ramana Reddy and Nandikotkur mandal president P. Reddy and Jupadu Bungalow mandal president K. Manjula, farmers of Nandikotkur, Jupadu Bungalow and Pagidyala mandals staged a demonstration at the SE office and staged a sit-in before the SE’s chamber.Standing crops of maize, pulses, turmeric and paddy in over 15,000 acres are on the verge of withering which would cause a loss of Rs. 100 crore, Mr. Janardhana Reddy pointed out. Farmers raised the crops believing in Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu who had promised to release KC canal water till March end, he added. He demanded release of 0.5 tmcft of water by this month end and another 0.5 tmcft by February 20 to salvage the withering crops and cater to the drinking water needs of people.Stating that the existing bore wells were not yielding ample water for their crops, farmers demanded that power supply for agriculture in two spells be ensured, rather than for seven hours at a stretch every day. If the crops withered away, farmers would be saddled with losses and left with no option but to commit suicide, agriculturists Ramakrishna Reddy and Narasimha Naidu and pisciculturist Pullanna said.In response to the protest, Irrigation SE S. Chandrasekhara Rao said that he had apprised the issue to the departmental higher-ups and Collector Ch. Vijayamohan, adding that he would submit a report on the water availability and the demand. As many as 26 tmcft of water had been released so far and 5.2 tmcft was used for KC Canal assistance so far, out of an entitlement of 5.7 tmcft.Mr. Janardhana Reddy urged the Chief Minister to release water from Tungabhadra high-level canal and discuss with the Telangana Government on water release from the RDS.‘Standing crops in 15,000 acres are on the verge of withering’