http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Ahead-of-Sankranti-celebrations-reach-a-crescendo/article13999363.ece

The stage is set for Sankranti festivities that will begin across the State from January 14. The temple town of Tirupati is decked up for its celebrations as the ‘State Festival’ while the villages wore a festive atmosphere with various cultural programmes and traditional games and sports being organised in the run-up to Bhogi, Sankranti and Kanuma.Participating in the celebrations organised at Indira Gandhi Municipal Corporation in Vijayawada on Wednesday, Irrigation Minister Devineni Umamaheswara Rao said that it was the government’s endeavour to bring cheer to every individual and was doing its best to achieve all– round development. Due focus was laid on development of villages, he asserted.Mayor K. Sridhar, Municipal Commissioner G. Veerapandian, Sub-Collector G. Srujana and others were present.Home Minister N. Chinna Rajappa took part as the chief guest in ‘Sankranti Sambaralu’ organised by the government on the Ananda Bharati grounds in Kakinada. On the occasion, he distributed ‘Chandranna Sankranti Kanuka’ to the families belonging to economic weaker sections. Cultural programs and various competitions were conducted at the venue. Collector H. Arun Kumar, MLA Vanamadi Venkateswara Rao and Zilla Parishad Chairman N. Rambabu were among those present.In Kurnool district, Collector Ch. Vijay Mohan flagged off a 5k run from the Collectorate to Konda Reddy Fort and enthusiastically participated in it along with officials and youth. Mr. Vijay Mohan released pigeons and balloons into the air. District Revenue Officer G.S. Gangadhar Goud, Municipal Commissioner S. Ravindra Babu, Chief Planning Officer D. Ananda Naik and Special Collector of Srisailam Project Subba Reddy participated.Meanwhile, Tirupati was decked up for the festival. The city is being illuminated with serial lamps and decorated with welcome arches. The festival will be officially conducted at Silparamam as well as Hotel Marasa Sarovar Premiere, according to Director of Department of Culture, D. Vijaya Bhaskar.He told media persons that the government has sanctioned Rs.1 crore for each district for conducting the festival. Collector Siddharth Jain said Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu would formally declare open Marasa Sarovar Premiere at Karakambadi road on Thursday evening and also inaugurate the fest at the five-star hotel.Competitions like kite-flying for kids, cookery and Rangoli painting with ‘Gobbemmalu’ topping for women, rural sporting events for youth such as Kabaddi and Thokkudubilla are being held on the occasion.As part of three-day Sankranti festival, ‘Bommala Koluvu’ was organised at the Tanishq showroom here on Wednesday.A press release here said the celebration was aimed at reviving the age old tradition of setting up ‘bommalu’ with colourful handmade Kondpalli toys. The move would also help artisans who are making Kondapalli toys to a large extent.