http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/AIIMS-denies-financial-irregularities-in-purchases/article13996348.ece

The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) has denied any irregularities in its response to the CBI’s report to the Health and Family Welfare Ministry indicting the then AIIMS-Jai Prakash Narayan Apex (JPNA) Trauma Centre head M.C. Misra, the present director of the Institute, along with two others in connection with purchases made without tendering process.The allegations are part of an affidavit filed in a public interest litigation, pending in the Delhi High Court, seeking a probe into a number of corruption cases at AIIMS which were unearthed by former Chief Vigilance Officer Sanjiv Chaturvedi during his tenure between 2012 and 2014.The case, filed by the Centre for Public Interest Litigation, was listed for hearing before a Division Bench headed by Chief Justice G. Rohini on Tuesday, but was adjourned till the first week of March. The affidavit was filed by Magsaysay Award winner Mr. Chaturvedi, described as a whistleblower officer, who is one of the respondents in the PIL.AIIMS spokesperson Neerja Bhatla said: “There are some reports regarding alleged irregularities in supplies bought for Rs.20 lakh at JPN Trauma Centre of AIIMS. In this regard it is clarified that AIIMS had placed the store officer, T. R. Mahajan, under suspension and a charge sheet for major penalties was issued to the said official. Following departmental inquiry, the enquiry officer has concluded that none of the charges against Mr. Mahajan stand proved.”“The findings of the enquiry officer will be placed for consideration of president, AIIMS. At this stage, AIIMS would like to place on record that no irregularity has been made out in the procurement of disinfectants and fogging solutions by JPN Trauma Centre,’’ she added.While the CBI has recommended appropriate action, the agency has not registered any case.The recommendation was made in October 2015 on the basis of an inquiry into a complaint lodged by Mr. Chaturvedi in July 2014. It was alleged that certain officials favoured one Drishti Medicos Surgicals, owned by the son and the daughter-in-law of the trauma centre’s assistant stores officer, Mr. Mahajan. Using proprietary certificates, orders worth about Rs.20 lakh were given to the firm for purchase of disinfectant and fogging solution allegedly at exorbitant rates.“T.R. Mahajan used the proprietary certificate of Dr. Amit Gupta repeatedly to obtain approval of Head of Department (Surgery), Dr. Misra, who did not object to the same,” said the CBI note, adding that Dr. Gupta declared the products proprietary in nature in an ad hoc manner without adequate care and purchases were made despite existing rate contract for the main hospital.On another complaint of irregularities in Surgery Department, the CBI had prepared a similar note.It was alleged that items worth about Rs.60 lakh were found lying unused and had expired. In several cases, purchase orders were split and amount kept below Rs.2 lakh to allegedly evade inquiry or tender process.Dr. Misra, who was the Trauma Centre head and Head of Department (Surgery), set up a committee to probe the allegations. Dr. Gupta was one of the committee members, hospital sources said.Responding to the report, Amit Gupta from AIIMS maintained that the institute had zero tolerance for corruption.“The institute has a strong commitment for a transparent and clean administration,” he said.