http://www.thehindu.com/in-school/sh-science/Airy-and-his-transit-circle/article13980761.ece

We know that the position of any place on the surface of the Earth can be given in terms of its latitude and longitude. In a similar vein, declination and right ascension are two parameters that provide the position of the star. Transit circles are precision instruments that are designed to measure these two coordinates. We’ll look at one such transit circle today, an instrument that marked a huge technological leap during its time.The Airy Transit Circle (ATC) is named after Sir George Biddell Airy, who designed it. Airy graduated from Trinity College, Cambridge and became Lucasian professor of mathematics at Cambridge in 1826. His interest in mathematics took him to astronomy, where he found his true calling.After becoming the Plumian professor of astronomy and director of the Cambridge observatory in 1828, he was later appointed the seventh astronomer royal or the director of the Royal Greenwich Observatory in 1835. He held on to that position for over four decades, during which he oversaw a number of advances.PerfectionistBeing a mathematician, Airy was obsessive about perfection and was known for having an eye for details. So when he was in charge, he transformed the observatory, installing new apparatus and also ensuring many important observations weren’t lost forever.The ATC was one such new device installed during his tenure. Airy believed that it was the Observatory’s duty to chart the position of stars and planets, which can then be used by navigators. He argued that a new telescope was the need of the hour.First observationLike the instrument it replaced, the ATC was mounted to move only in the plane of the meridian. Supported by massive stone piers on either side, the telescope tube was almost 12 feet in length. Though Airy wanted to make the first observation on January 1, 1851, it was only done on January 4 due to the English weather. It remained in continual use till 1938 and the last observation using it was taken in 1954.While the right ascension of a star was directly obtained from the time of transit, declination was calculated from the zenith distance - the angle between the star, the observer and the zenith, or the point vertically overhead. Using this data for various stars, charts and position tables were prepared, which help in navigation.The ATC redefined Greenwich Meridian and also went on to define the Prime Meridian of the whole world. At the International Meridian Conference held in Washington in 1884, the ATC was adopted in principle as the basis of universal time, owing to its tremendous popularity around the world.Even though it is no longer in use, the ATC can still be seen in its original mounting, in the Transit Circle Room at the Royal Observatory. And even though GPS receivers indicated last year that zero longitude now runs 102 m east of ATC, researchers have been able to explain the offset, attributing it to the difference between two conventional methods of determining coordinates: astronomical and geodetic.Reach the writer at ganesh.a.s@thehindu.co.in