http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Madurai/Airport-expansion-work-hinges-on-fund-allocation-for-landowners/article13989301.ece

The first meeting of the re-constituted Madurai Airport Advisory Committee has resolved to appeal to Chief Minister Jayalalithaa for early acquisition and handing over of 615 acres of land for airport expansion.The panel, headed by its chairman and Lok Sabha Member of Virudhunagar Parliamentary constituency T. Radhakrishnan and vice-chairman M. Muthuramalingam, Tirumangalam MLA, met at the airport on Friday. Airport Director Kuldeep Singh Rishi and other members took part in the meeting.During the discussion on land acquisition, Mr. Rishi explained steps taken by the Airport Authority of India (AAI) in the past seven years. He said that Collector L. Subramanian had informed the AAI that the land acquisition process was at an advanced stage. “Valuation of land, buildings, trees and wells in the proposed lands to be acquired was over. Only allocation of funds to pay compensation to the landowners is required now,” he said.Stating that as a matter of policy AAI never paid for land acquisition, he said that only when the runway was extended from the existing 7,500 feet to 12,000 feet, the airport would be able to tap the potential of international connectivity.Bilateral agreementsThe MP was also urged to take up the issue of bilateral air services agreement with the Centre so that international flight services to Singapore, Malaysia and Gulf countries could be started from Madurai.In a presentation made at the meeting, it was said that passengers from southern districts and Pudukottai would be greatly benefited if more international flights were operated. Now, they had no other choice but use airports in Chennai, Tiruchi or Thiruvananthapuram.Industrialist A.P. Selvarajan wanted the officials to provide shelter from rain and sun for passengers getting down from vehicles till they enter the departure hall. “Since vehicles are not allowed in the first lane, they get drenched before they reached the departure hall,” he said. Mr. Rishi promised to look into it along with a demand for additional toilets for visitors.Representatives of Air India and SpiceJet promised to make use of the aerobridges at Madurai airport soon. “Operation of pushback tractors required clearance from the Bureau of Civil Aviation,” he said.Mr. Radhakrishnan urged the SpiceJet to change the timing of its Madurai-Chennai-New Delhi flight service. “Forenoon is too late for us to reach the Parliament. If it departs at 7 a.m., it will benefit all the 13 MPs from southern districts,” he said.