http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/Akhilesh-woos-NRIs-to-Uttar-Pradesh/article13982539.ece

Promoting Uttar Pradesh as the “land of unlimited opportunities,” laced with both natural and human resources, Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav on Monday took a major step towards connecting and collaborating with the Indian Diaspora, in particular Non-Resident Indians of U.P. origin.Mr. Yadav presided over the first-ever Uttar Pradesh Pravasi Diwas in Agra, as part of his government’s initiative to attract NRIs hailing from the State to their roots and showcase initiatives and business potential for them.The inaugural three-day event would conclude on Wednesday. Lauding their hard work and achievements abroad, Mr. Yadav, while addressing around 200 NRIs of prominence, said the gathering was organized to provide them an “opportunity to contribute to the development” of the U.P.The State conferred upon 16 eminent NRIs the UP Apravasiya Bharatiya Ratna Puraskar for their contribution to the State's development and extraordinary achievements in various fields or professions. The list included former Prime Minister of Trinidad and Tobago Basdeo Panday, member of the United Kingdom House of Lions, Khalid Hamid, well-known Indian-American entrepreneur-cum-philanthropist Frank Islam and singer Alka Bhatnagar.To pull in investment for the State, Mr. Yadav also signed 13 MoUs in various sectors, especially in trade, investment, finance, education and technology, with major networks, including the Global Organization of People of Indian Origin.Last July, the Samajwadi Party government set up a distinct U.P. NRI department to draw in NRIs and provide them support and facilitate services for any issues they might face abroad or their kin and families at home in the State.On Monday, Mr. Yadav, dedicated the first Migrant Resource Centre (MRC) to the people. The MRC, set up in Lucknow, is the nodal agency for the NRI department.The State government used the first day to project the initiatives taken by it for the welfare of the NRIs and highlighting the various schemes of economic development launched by it since 2012.Major achievements and projects of the Samajwadi Party government, especially infrastructural measures such as the Lucknow-Agra Expressway, Lucknow Metro and a Trans-Ganga City at Kanpur were put on show.