http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Alarming-rise-in-coliform-count-in-Pampa/article14026564.ece

Kerala’ s second largest river, Pampa, which the Ayyappa devotees across the globe consider holy, has turned into a pool of filth during the last lap of the just-concluded annual Makaravilakku pilgrim season.The pollution of the Pampa has crossed all permissible limits, posing alarming health risk to the multitude of pilgrims taking their customary holy dip as part of the pilgrimage as well as the five million population residing on the riverbanks up to Kuttanad. And not to speak of its ill-effects on the flora and fauna in the Periyar Tiger Reserve.The daily monitoring of the river by the Kerala State Pollution Control Board (PCB) at Sabarimala and Pampa on the directions of the Kerala High Court has exposed the criminal negligence on the part of the authorities concerned in checking the river pollution this year too.The PCB analysis has found the total count of coliform bacteria in every 100 ml of water in the Pampa at 5,50,000 where as that of the Njunangar stream that carried all sorts of filth from the Sannidhanam at 5,70,000 on the Makaravilakku day on January 15. This is against its maximum permissible number of 500 for every 100 ml of water for bathing purpose, says Paulus Eapen, District Environmental Engineer.The faecal coliform count in the Pampa and the Njunangar was 4,60,000 and 4,80,000 respectively in every 100 ml which, according to Mr. Eapen, is highly hazardous. The PCB river monitoring on January 13, 14, and 16 too has shown more or less the same coliform and faecal coliform count in the Pampa and Njunangar.The PCB analysis in 1997 had put the coliform count in the Pampa at 96,000 in every 100 ml. The Kerala High Court had taken suo motu proceedings against the State government and the Travancore Devaswom Board on the basis of The Hindu reports 19 years ago. Stern steps initiated by the court had led to the TDB setting up a chemical-based sewage treatment plant at Pampa 15 years ago. However, the plant has not been functioning properly for the past five years.Environmental auditThe Pampa Parirakshana Samiti (PSS) has called upon the government to implement the Sabarimala master plan projects in a time-bound and effective manner. PSS general secretary N.K. Sukumaran Nair has called for an environmental audit at Sabarimala and Pampa on an emergency basis in the wake of the ever-growing pollution of the Pampa River even after the commissioning of various pollution abatement schemes over the past 15 years.