http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/Alert-at-Kempegowda-International-Airport-after-bomb-threat/article14024527.ece

The Kempegowda International Airport was in a state of high alert after the crew of a Goa-bound AirAsia flight found a letter on the plane stating that a bomb had been planted in the aircraft. When an alarm was raised, the airport went into red alert.Airport officials confirmed the incident but said it was a hoax. However, Deputy Commissioner of Police (north east) P.S. Harsha told The Hindu that it was a mock drill to check preparedness to tackle such situations.Flight came from JaipurThe AirAsia incoming flight I5 1721 arrived from Jaipur on Wednesday morning carrying around 160 passengers. The letter was found by the crew while cleaning the aircraft, which was scheduled to fly to Goa around 12.35 p.m. They immediately alerted airport authorities who sounded a red alert.As per standard operating protocol, the airport was shut down for a brief period. All the passengers who were about to board the flight were frisked and their bags scanned again.Meanwhile, a bomb disposal squad with sniffer dogs was pressed into service. The North Easy division police, led by P.S. Harsha, who was at the airport to receive Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, also joined in.An AirAsia spokesperson said that the aircraft was taken to an isolation bay and checked thoroughly by the Bomb Detection & Disposal Squad (BDDS). Nothing dangerous was found. The aircraft was then cleared and released for normal operations.The entire operation took three hours after which the CISF and State police gave the all-clear signal. The flight took off around 4.40 p.m., said a senior police officer.‘Heightened security’The BDDS, Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and Kempegowda International Airport Bengaluru (KIAB) were involved the operation. The airport authorities, in a statement, said that they followed the guidelines laid down by the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS). “KIA, in collaboration with CISF and State Police, continue to take precautionary measures to ensure the safety and security of all its passengers. All other flight operations continue to be normal. Heightened security alert, which was implemented for Republic Day, continues till 30th January as directed by BCAS,” the release said.Mittu Chandilya, CEO & MD, AirAsia India said, “The safety and security of our guests, employees and overall operations is paramount in AirAsia India. We have our detailed procedures and a task force ready to work closely with the required authorities to ensure all events are dealt with no compromise to our commitment to safety and security."Later, P. S. Harsha told The Hindu that the entire exercise was ‘part of a mock drill’. “We have been conducting such exercises in sensitive areas in the city, and this was part of the drill,” he said.