http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/All-Modi-gave-to-Andhra-Pradesh-was-two-pots-says-KCR/article14025485.ece

Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao said he went to Amaravathi for the foundation stone laying ceremony of the new Andhra Pradesh capital well prepared to announce a financial assistance on behalf of the Telangana government.To his surprise, he said he found Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself not making any announcement except handing over to Mr. Chandrababu Naidu two pots of water and sand. Mr. Rao said he dropped his plan as it would amount to scoring a point over Mr. Modi. He withdrew after enquiring from Union Minister M. Venkaiah Naidu, who was also seated on the dais, whether the pots were all Mr. Modi had to offer.Smart citiesMr. Rao took exception to not a single town of Telangana figuring among the list of Smart Cities released by the Central government on Thursday for development. This is the justice that the Centre has rendered to the State while sanctioning Visakhapatnam and Kakinada to Andhra Pradesh, he said.The Chief Minister said a sub-plan for backward classes was likely in the next budget of the State government to prevent their diversion to other schemes.Hyderabad will be split into four or five districts when the reorganisation of districts is taken up. The co-terminus parts of Hyderabad and Ranga Reddy, like Ibrahimpatan and Medchal, will be made districts, he said.Mr. Rao admitted that the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation and Hyderabad Metro Water Supply and Sewerage Board can be merged but the Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority will remain a separate entity. However, the government will take a final view.Mr. Rao denied the government was able to supply uninterrupted power in Hyderabad and elsewhere so far because the demand on agriculture sector had come down. He said the government made it possible though consumption went up by 5,000 to 10,000 million units.The Chanchalguda Central Jail and Hyderabad Race Course will be shifted at any cost to provide for residential schools for minorities. The jail will be relocated at Cherlapalli where 90 acres of land was available, while a decision on the new race course will be taken shortly. The race club was demanding 200 acres while the government had offered 138 acres at an alternate site in Ranga Reddy district.An Austrian firm has been commissioned to cleanup Hussainsagar and Musi river.Mr. Rao said he intended well when he talked about flushing out water from Hussainsagar to remove chemical content that flowed from industrial units, but he was criticised.One lakh two-bedroom houses will be constructed in 12 to 15 storied buildings for the poor in the city. A credit linkage scheme was being worked out for the benefit of beneficiaries.Like his promise not to seek mandate for TRS in the next general elections if the government did not supply drinking water to every household, Mr. Rao refused to commit himself in the case of regulating drain water as the situation had gone out of hands and will take time to improve.