http://www.thehindu.com/features/homes-and-gardens/All-roads-lead-to-Poonamallee/article14026733.ece

While a number of prominent localities were inundated during the December floods, Poonamallee was surprisingly unaffected. A residential housing market that has developed over the last few years, Poonamallee is a popular choice among buyers today.Approximately 5,500 to 6,000 projects have come up in the last 3-4 years. Rapid connectivity, proximity to IT hubs, well-built infrastructure, and the availability of civic amenities, are factors that have propelled this growth. Shushmul Maheshwari of RNCOS says Poonamallee is one of the emerging residential locales in Chennai. “The area offers well-structured housing units which incorporate modern facilities. The availability of reputed schools, colleges, healthcare centres, entertainment zones, restaurants, and shopping malls, have further added to its popularity,” he says.Brotin Banerjee, MD & CEO, Tata Housing, says with the city witnessing rapid infrastructure development with improved connectivity, several leading manufacturing industries have set up their units in Chennai. “This growing IT workforce is catalysing the demand for housing in areas like Poonamallee. With its proximity to manufacturing facilities and office spaces, the demand for affordable housing is increasing.”Connectivity plays an important role and the newly constructed 200 feet bypass road connecting Maduravoyal to Red Hills through Ambattur and Poonamallee, is an added advantage. The key growth drivers in Pooonamallee are the NH-4 becoming part of the Golden Quadrilateral and the Tambaram-Manali Chennai Bypass Road. “The recently opened Outer Ring Road from Vandalur to Nemilichery has further improved accessibility,” adds Maheshwari.The market is currently being perceived as an affordable/mid-segment one, but over the years there is a high possibility that Poonamallee will cater to the mid/upper-mid segment too. There has been a considerable shift in the age of buyers and there is a demand from youngsters for quality, affordable projects. Baneerjee says young buyers in the 24-35 age bracket who have greater disposable incomes, seek projects equipped with latest designs and high-end amenities. Primary buyers of projects here are those looking for a second home. Most of them are employed in the IT/ITES sector, educational institutions, and vendors of manufacturing hubs around Sriperumbudur and Oragadam. Currently the prevailing land rates are Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 3,000 sq.ft., depending upon the location and basic infrastructure. The average rental rates in these locations vary between Rs. 8,000 and Rs. 15,000, depending on the location, proximity to commercial hubs, and type of residential unit (furnished or unfurnished), says Maheshwari.V.S. Sridhar, Managing Director, Cushman & Wakefield, India, says there is huge development opportunity in the affordable and mid-segment housing segment in Poonamallee. “This micro market has huge opportunity for growth. Here, almost 81 per cent of the housing demand is from the affordable segment and 12 per cent demand from the mid-segment.”Apart from accessibility, Poonamallee also offers a chance for a well-rounded lifestyle. It’s juxtaposition to the popular beaches – Marina, Thiruvanmiyur and Adyar adds to popularity. The amalgamation of social and physical infrastructure will help further the realty development in the area in the coming 5-10 years. G. Seshasayee, Chief – Business Development, Navin’s Housing, says, “For any kind of development in Poonamallee in the next 5-10 years, the NH 4, probably up to Sriperumbudur and beyond, has to see a lot of transformations. This will spur growth in the micro markets that lie along the industrial corridor. Also, the area will benefit if the proposed Greenfield Airport in Sriperumbudur project takes shape.Speaking of upcoming infrastructure projects in the area, Arun Kumar, MD, Casa Grande, says, Poonamallee lacks railway connections and in the next few years, the commercial sector will grow and a large number of showrooms, restaurants, malls, and theatres will come up. Maheshwari says the development of a dry port and green field airport at Sriperumbudur, four-laning of the roads from Hoskote to Dobbaspet and from Mulbagal to Renigunta via Chittoor, a dedicated high-speed freight corridor, and the development of Chennai-Bengaluru expressway is needed. Also, the Bus Rapid Transit System has been proposed across five corridors, among which one is the Koyambedu to Poonamallee stretch.