http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/All-the-spices-of-Arabia/article14026712.ece

I’m always excited at the thought of cooking a West Asian meal. It’s a cuisine that I started exploring around half a decade ago. At first the dishes were mostly creamy hummus, flavoured cous cous and spiced aubergine.And then I watched a travel episode on Morocco. The show went on to highlight the spice market of Marakkesh. Even, on the television screen, the allure, mystery and romance of these markets was unmistakeable. It was on this show that I first heard about the special spice blend called the Baharat. The show’s host called it “the essence of the Middle East”. Baharat is the Arabic word for spice. The mixture is made by pounding and blending a variety of spices in varied proportions. The powder can be as coarse or as fine a texture as one wants. It can be used as a dry rub to flavour meats or vegetables or mixed with fresh ingredients like garlic, herbs, lemon juice or oil to form a wet marinade; to marinate food for a barbeque or to add depth to a rich gravy.Get out your pestle and mortar to make the Baharat. Set aside about half an hour for the process and you will be more than pleased with the result. Some of the spices need to be roasted lightly and this sets off a multitude of aromas that permeate the whole house. Once the ingredients are roasted and cooled, tip them into the cool stone bowl to be pounded. Hold the mouth of the mortar firmly to ensure that the spices don’t spill out during the initial pounding.As the dull but persistent thud of the pounding gets louder and more rhythmic, my kitchen helpers peer over my shoulder. One cannot resist asking if she can speed up the process by giving it a quick blitz in the blender. I smile and ask if it will give the same satisfaction that the hand pounding does.In a matter of minutes, the heady scents of the released oils cling to the palms and fingers. The blend can be stored indefinitely in an airtight container in the refrigerator.Yoghurt, mint, raisins, dried apricots, dates are great accompaniments for a dish that resonates with the taste of Baharat.In some parts, variations like dried rose petals, dried mint, dried ginger and saffron are also added.The final joy of making the Baharat is when the dish is ready. I forget about numb fingers caused by the pounding as each mouthful is relished and the plates are thrust forward for second helpings.This home-made Baharat powder pushed me to invest in a tagine pot, which led to more wholesome West Asian meals.