http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/All-is-well/article13999530.ece

“It's wonderful to perform for such a large audience in such a positive atmosphere,” exclaimed the renowned Hindustani vocalist Ashwini Bhide Deshpande. She happens to be woman of science as well as music. After completing her doctorate in Biochemistry, she gave up science in favour of music in 1990 and since then has been known for her Jaipur-Atrauli Gharana style of singing. She performed at the Swami Haridas Tansen Sangeet Nritya Mahotsav organised by HCL Concerts and Uma Sharma School of Dance, along with many other musicians like Pandit Chhannulal Mishra, Pandit Vishwamohan Bhatt, Pandit Hariprasad Chaurasia and Ustad Amjad Ali Khan to name a few.Talking about the transition, Ashwini said, “Changes in our lifestyles have brought about changes in the field of music as well. Earlier musicians strictly adhered to the style of their gharanas whereas today there is more flexibility and fluidity in the way musicians perform.” She also noticed that today's generation is coming in to learn Indian classical music, in spite of being exposed to other genres of music. They are a lot more enlightened and have an open outlook.In terms of audiences, she feels their numbers have gone up. “Earlier the audiences were smaller and consisted of one or two knowledgeable persons of music, today the audiences are much larger and come from different walks of life, which means that they have a diverse taste in music,” she explains. This means that musicians today have to become professionals in planning a repertoire keeping the audience in mind. Yet, she feels that vocalists have an advantage over other musicians, “For us, the presentation of a composition has less to do with the audience, we keep what our gurus taught us at a higher pedestal and draw in the audience towards the composition rather than trying to compose according to their taste.”The senior musician is also known for her intense work on bandishes and has composed many of her own. Her books, “Raagrachnajali” and its sequel “Raagrachnajali 2” are significant in this regard. “Today, we can be more inquisitive towards learning and understanding the meaning of bandishes thanks to the easy availability of information, earlier we could not dare to ask our guru the meaning behind the bandishes,” she says.She also recollected an incident when she was singing a thumri about two young girls in the presence of an old thumri singer. “I had thought that the feeling of distress described in the thumri was, that the girl couldn't wait for dawn to break, but the old thumri singer corrected me and said that one girl was distressed because her friend's brother had not returned! She is worried for her friend!” she explained, and since then her whole interpretation of that particular thumri has changed forever.Ustad Shujaat Khan, the seventh generation Sitar player of the Imdadkhani Gharana also performed at the festival.About the changes that have taken place in the field of music, Shujaat said, “The compositions are the same, the artists are the same, the audience has the same intention of listening and enjoying the music, so I do not see any changes in the world of music. Classical music has lived for so long, it will continue.”