http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Thiruvananthapuram/All-the-trappings-of-one-of-a-kind-festival/article14006646.ece

Minister for Education P.K. Abdu Rabb said here on Monday that all arrangements were in place for the smooth conduct of the festival.Director of Public Instruction M.S. Jaya will hoist the festival flag at the Putharikandam grounds at 9.30 a.m. on Tuesday. Film-maker Jayaraj, whose film Ottal won the National and State awards, will be the chief guest at the opening ceremony. Actors Nivin Pauly and Suraj Venjaramoodu will grace the valedictory.Briefing reporters about the arrangements, Mr. Rabb said to ensure speedy registration, counters, manned by five persons each, had been set up at the Government Model Boys Higher Secondary School, Thycaud, for participants from each of the 14 districts.One-hundred-and-fifty rooms have been booked in the city for judges and festival officials. The participants would be put up in 13 schools — five for girls and eight for boys. Facilities for booking accommodation through a portal had been arranged, he said.The government, with the assistance of the Thiruvananthapuram chapter of the Indian Medical Association, has formulated a scheme, ‘Healthy Stay,’ to provide medical aid, including ambulances, at the various accommodation centres, the Minister said.He said all necessary arrangements had been made for the Sanskrit and Arabic festivals.Food would be cooked under the supervision of Pazhayidam Mohanan Namboodiri, Mr. Rabb said. Breakfast would be the first meal to be served on Tuesday, with a varied fare every day. As many as 3,000 people would be able to dine together in the hall at the Police Training Grounds. Special arrangements have been made for VIPs, he said.The transportation committee has made arrangements for transporting children from their arrival in the city to accommodation centres and from there to the dining hall and venues all through the day. Trained drivers had been deployed for the purpose, he said.Minister for Health V.S. Sivakumar released the route schedule on the occasion.Mayor V.K. Prasanth said 300 persons had been deployed by the city Corporation for ensuring cleanliness at the venues.