http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/All-the-fuss-over-glassware/article13982680.ece

The New Year usually brings goodies for scribes. The Exhibition Society too decided to show its gratitude to scribes through handy gifts following a press conference on Numaish.However, it did not know that some journalists are capable of throwing tantrums in the face of denial. A few reporters who did not receive gifts, mainly glassware, as they were inadequate in number made their displeasure clear at the Society’s office. “How can they ignore those among us who come to cover the exhibition?” fumed an irate scribe and launched a litany of allegations against the Society.Observers from outside the fraternity could not help stifle a smile about the fuss over glassware!Governor’s humorous side Governor of Telangana and AP, E.S. L Narasimhan is known for his wit. His play with the words was in full flow the other day at a public function held at L.V. Prasad Eye Institute (LVPEI). The function was attended by IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao, who himself is known for his humor, and philanthropist Tej Kohli of Kohli Foundation, who had pledged to support LVPEI with a funding of Rs. 100 crore. Admiring Mr. Tej Kohili’s decision to support the eye research centre, the Governor in chaste Hindi said “Aap Bohot Teji Sain Pocket Khol Diye’. His play of words with Mr. Kohli’s name instantly drew applause from all.Later, the Governor also cracked a joke on K.T. Rama Rao’s earlier statement that thanks the funding from philanthropists, L.V. Prasad Eye Hospital did not need State Government’s help. “You have not come here to just provide lip service, but to provide full service to the patients of LVPEI,” he said, drawing huge applause from the IT Minister and others present in the function.Public toilets These are the facilities created for citizens but citizens had to wait for almost a year to make use of them. With the GHMC polls round the corner, Ministerial teams have been going around throwing such facilities open for citizens and bringing them to use.The GHMC had constructed Japanese Garden at Jubilee Hills a year ago, but it was inaugurated on Sunday. Similarly, a Rose Garden, built at Sanjeevaiah Park by HMDA at a considerable cost, was awaiting for a formal opening for the last several months and the administration had now decided that the right time for inaugural event is Tuesday. Now, we are awaiting the inauguration of public toilets built near the Charminar adjacent to the Unani Hospital.Netas’ time sense The attitude of the society towards the physically-challenged was on perfect display recently. The same netas, who attend meetings with large gatherings who serve as potential vote banks, looked the other way for an event conducted for the visually-impaired.The event had to start at 10 a.m. but there was no sign of the MLAs or the Minister for close to three hours.Not to be disheartened, the visually-impaired children went about celebrating the event in their own way.Till the chief guests arrived, they took to stage to showcase their talent like singing and dancing.