http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/Always-in-the-shadows/article13986458.ece

“A wise scholar had once noted that there was a time when Goddess Saraswati, the divinity of music and literature, was depicted with a veena in one hand and a book in another, but as years went by, writers and musicians parted ways. The musicians took away the veena and the scholars took away the book. Today the very talented, Mrinal Pande has tried to bring back these two elements together again in her latest book ‘Dhwaniyon ke Aalok Mein Stri’”, stated the noted Hindi poet and writer, Ashok Vajpeyi on the occasion of the book release function at India Habitat Centre.There was also a talk organised by the publishers Radhakrishna Prakashan, at the venue. It had well-known people like Shubha Mudgal, Hindi poet Yatindra Sharma, Ashok Vajpayee and author Mrinal Pande participate in it.“A word does not only carry a meaning, it has its own distinct sound as well. It is the sound and word together that take us to its lasting meaning. The prose is created when the meaning of words becomes more dominant. Music is born when sound gains dominance over the meaning,” said Pande. She was inspired from the works of famous Hindi writer Abhinav Gupt. The author who is writer and journalist by profession is also a trained musician. But it’s through writing that she expresses herself much better.The book takes you into the world of women who struggled to keep the tradition of music alive, that too at a time when the world of music was considered corrupt. At a time when women had only domestic roles to play, there were women who had their hearts in music. These women created some of the most extraordinary bandishes but could never take the credit for it, as they had to use a pseudonym instead of their real names. The pseudonyms protected the name and honour of their family. In fact, Pande’s mother Gaura Pant was a writer herself but she wrote under the pen name of Shivani, to hide her identity.Talking about the current state of classical music and literature, the author said, “Politicisation of Hindi has led to the decline in the use of its many dialects or bolis, like Braj Bhasha, Bundeli or Khari boli. They have broken its bond with Hindi. All the bandishes are made up of these bolis. And so there is a breed of musicians now who do not know the meaning or correct pronunciation of bandishes”Shubha Mudgal, the noted Hindustani singer, who, comes from a family of academics, shared her story, “My maternal grandmother was not allowed to learn Indian classical music as a child because the world of music in India was considered to be corrupt and inappropriate for a woman at that time. Instead, she was given a piano by her father to practise music.” Later on, her grandmother ensured that her children were not disconnected from classical music. Shubha’s mother was trained in music, but never considered making a career out of it, but she knew that her daughter was more serious than her. “One day, after I had just finished my B.A my mother sat down with me and told me to take a year and learn music and then decide whether I wanted to be a musician by profession or not,” recalled Shubha. “Today, the world of music is changing fast, these changes have positive as well as negative impacts. People do not have time or patience for practice yet don’t stop from calling themselves, maestros.”