http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Amaravati-plans-take-wing/article13999199.ece

The Andhra Pradesh Government will be issuing the notification for construction of temporary Secretariat on Thursday.It has also decided to start construction of the new capital, Amaravati, in June, and propose to complete the first phase by 2018.Speaking to the media here on Wednesday, Municipal Administration and Urban Development Minister Narayana said that the construction of temporary Secretariat would be taken up at Velagapudi. The village was identified for temporary Secretariat following soil tests. Steps were initiated to invite tenders for the construction of temporary Secretariat as well as Amaravati, he added.Mr. Narayana said that construction would be taken up in Velagapudi between Survey Nos. 205 and 208, and the cost of construction was estimated at Rs.180 crore. Of this, Rs.90 crore would be loan from HUDCO and the remaining would be borne by the State government.After the notification, a period of 21 days would be given for filing the tenders and, after that, the tenders would be finalised within five days.The government would invite tenders for temporary capital construction in three categories — pre-fabricated construction, RCC construction, and steel construction. These constructions would be taken up in the areas earmarked as ‘multi-purpose’ in the capital region. After the construction of permanent Secretariat, the temporary buildings would be handed over to the CRDA.Some Chinese companies offered to complete the construction of temporary Secretariat within three to four months, but the government would give maximum time limit of six months.The construction of permanent capital would commence in June and, in the first phase, government buildings like Legislative Assembly, Secretariat, offices of Heads of Departments would be taken up and completed by December 2018.Singapore team comingMeanwhile, the Singapore team which sent its Swiss Challenge proposal for the construction of the capital city is coming to the State on January 18 to seek some clarifications, he said. On the allotment of plots to farmers who gave land for the capital under the land pooling scheme, Mr. Narayana said the government would announce its final plan for allotment of residential and commercial plots on February 1. For the farmers of Uddandarayapalem, Tallayapalem, and Lingayapalem, which fall under the seed capital, plots would be allotted in the nearby villages. For the farmers of the remaining 26 villages, plots would be allotted in their own villages, he said.Process beginsConstruction to be taken up in Velagapudi betweenSurvey Nos. 205 and 208Cost of construction is estimated at Rs.180 croreRs.90 crore to be HUDCO loan and the remaining to be borne by the government