http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/Amaravati-beckons-global-industrialists/article13992821.ece

Making a strong pitch for investments in the Navya Andhra Pradesh, Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu on Sunday appealed to industrialists from across the world to open their corporate offices at the new capital of Amaravati.Speaking at the inaugural of three-day CII Partnership Summit and Sunrise AP Investment meet here, he said the State government was committed to building a world-class capital with the support of the Singapore Government.Amaravati was the talking point at the summit, with the investors evincing keen interest on knowing about the plans of the government to build a technology-driven and an eco-friendly capital at the historic place. “We have seen Chandigarh, Raipur, Gandhinagar and other capitals developed following State bifurcations. However, Mr. Naidu is different as he wants to create a world-class city at Amaravati,” Union Finance Minister Arun Jaitley remarked during his speech at the summit.Mr. Naidu said that ignoring the campaign by political rivals, the government could convince the farmers to part with nearly 33,000 acres under the Land Pooling Scheme (LPS ) to develop the new capital at Amaravati.Promising the investors hassle-free clearance of investment proposals within 21 days, Mr. Naidu said the government was keen on tapping the potential of port-led development, rich minerals, water and land availability, 24x7 power supply and 974-km coastline in the State. “Notwithstanding bifurcation blues, AP had achieved a growth rate of 11 per cent and is marching ahead to achieve the 14 to 15 per cent mark.Our vision is to make AP rank among the top three States by 2022, a top economy with highest happiness index by 2029 and the best State by 2050. Stating that World Bank had ranked AP second after Gujarat in ease of doing business, he said the government was firm in ensuring good governance.He said there were plenty of opportunities in building Greenfield airports including international airport at Bhogapuram, inland waterways, smart cities, roads and sports villages.Secretary, Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion, Amitabh Kant said AP was poised to take over Gujarat as No. 1 State .