http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Amaravati-Marathon-evokes-huge-response/article13993710.ece

raving the foggy and cold weather and keeping aside the comfort of relaxing on a holiday, thousands of running enthusiasts turned up for the Jio Amaravati 21K half marathon here on Sunday. The streets were abuzz with activity and there was lot of colour as people from different age groups participated in the marathon, which was conducted in three categories. It was not a usual Sunday morning in Vijayawada.Mikiyas Yemata from Ethiopia won the marathon completing it in one hour and five minutes. The second winner Samuel Kamau from Kenya was not far behind and missed the first place by just a minute. B. Srinu of Vizianagaram, Andhra Pradesh, won the third prize by clocking one hour seven minutes.Union Minister of Urban Development M. Venkaiah Naidu flagged off the marathon at the Indira Gandhi Municipal Corporation Stadium. Health Minister Kamineni Srinivas Rao, Vijayawada MP Kesineni Nani, DGP J.V. Ramudu and others were present on the occasion.Addressing on the occasion, Mr. Venkaiah Naidu said youngsters play a crucial role in development of the new capital Amaravati. “Everyone should work together in coordination for developing the new capital and I am confident under Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu’s leadership the State will prosper. The Central government will extend all support to Andhra Pradesh,” he said. Organisers claimed over 6,500 participants had participated in the event. There is a need to conduct such events and all efforts were being made to develop Vijayawada on par with other cities. The Central government has sanctioned nearly Rs.480 crore for constructing storm water drains in the city, said Vijayawada MP.Later, Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu presented the awards and certificates to the winners and congratulated the organisers for conducting the event. He called upon people to actively participate in such events and said a healthy mind and body would help in leading a good life. “We will be hosting the National Games on a grand note in 2019 and after Janmabhoomi programme different marathons would be conducted in all districts all through the year,” he said. Reliance Jio, which is main sponsor for the event, launched Jionet wifi service at M.G.Road.Currently, Jio is providing this service as complimentary. Commenting on the event, K.S. Venugopa l, Regional Head- South, Reliance Jio said: “We are proud to be associated with AP government’s vision of Digital A.P. Jio is motivated to end the digital divide by bringing cutting edge technology to people to enrich and empower lives” he said.We will be hosting theNational Games on a grand note in 2019 and different marathons will be conducted in all districts all through the year.- N. Chandrababu Naidu,Chief Minister