http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/Ambitious-plans-to-promote-generic-drugs/article13979985.ece

In order to ensure that the quality medicines were available at cheaper rates for the benefit of common man, the Union government had proposed “Jana Aushadalayas” to sell generic medicines at lower prices when compared to the branded drugs of various companies.Accordingly, the Karimnagar District Rural Development Agency (DRDA) had launched the “Jeevanadhara”, generic medical store by women self-help group members from 2012 onwards. Each generic medical store is manned by woman pharmacist and two to three women SHG members as assistants.Initially, the DRDA set up Jeevandhana medical shops in Karimnagar district headquarters hospital and at Sircilla Area hospital. Similarly, the MEPMA (Mission for elimination of poverty in municipal areas) had set up two generic medical stores in Ramagundam and Jagtial area hospitals.The generic medicines sold at the Jeevandhara shops were 50 per cent less cost when compared to the branded drugs in the market. But, they were doing low-key business following the private medical practitioners not prescribing the generic medicines. Instead, the private medical practitioners were prescribing only branded drugs for ‘obvious’ reasons.Ironically, the Karimnagar district had attained dubious distinction in the State with highest number of medical shops over 1,800 in number and doing daily business of over Rs.1 crore.It is also alleged that the private medical practitioners prescribe only particular branded medicines for the freebies, costly gifts and foreign jaunts offered by the pharmaceutical firms.Indian Medical Association (IMA) Telangana State president K. Shyamsunder said that they had sent circulars to all the IMA branches in the State to promote generic medicines. This year, we would remind the doctors to prescribe generic medicines and write only the name of drug instead of brand name, he said and added that they were also giving instructions to doctors to write the prescription legible with capital letters only.DRDA Additional Project Director Dr. Y. Ramesh Kumar told The Hindu that they were taking all measures to encourage people to purchase medicines at Jeevandhara generic medical stores. He said that they were planning to open five more generic medical stores in Huzurabad, Manthani, Mahadevpur, Peddapalli and Korutla very soon.Existing generic medical shops in Karimnagar, Sircilla, Ramagundam and Jagtial towns.Proposed new generic medical shops in Huzuraba, Korutla, Manthani, Mahadevpur and Peddapalli.Generic shops doing low-key business as the private doctors not prescribing generic medicinesIMA State president K. Shyamsunder said that they had given instructions to the private medical practitioners to promote generic medicines and write the prescription legible in capital lettersDistrict administration is planning to crack the nexus between the private medical practitioners and pharmaceutical companies