http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/Americans-at-war/article13990813.ece

Our Brand is Crisis , a satire about the Americanisation of a presidential campaign in Bolivia, is as much a sports movie. Jane Bodine (Sandra Bullock) is the disgraced coach/political consultant banished from the profession for an accusation we don’t know is true or not. After years in hibernation, she, initially reluctant, makes a return to the arena. Instead of home turf USA, it is an alien, exotic country in South America that she chooses.But the challenge is the same old one, her arch nemesis Pat Candy (Billy Bob Thornton) with whom she shares a history.Given its faithfulness to the formula, you know where the film is heading. But thankfully, Our Brand is Crisis doesn’t feel formulaic because of the off-handedness and droll humour with which director David Gordon Green treats it.It helps that at its centre are two actors who excel at demonstrating these qualities. Thornton’s Candy is the Moriarty to Bullock’s Sherlock Holmes.At one level, they are both terribly impressed with each other. Candy, who specialises in political guile with a perpetual smirk on his face, has a mystery around him and he probably even sexually fancies Jane.They both play it dirty, doing unethical, immoral things to pip one another. She doesn’t believe in Pedro Castillo, her controversial rich elite candidate who doesn’t have a connect with the people.But it’s a personal fight for revenge against Candy, the man who, she knows, is behind what brought her downfall.But Bodine also has a larger agenda, that of redemption, of doing the right thing.The political campaign, with all its dirty tricks, and the American-in-third-world-country humour is entertaining.The director’s touches of absurdity, highlighted during the shooting of a commercial involving Castillo and a llama, works well. Scenes like these offset the familiar templated gags. Like the drunken attack on the opponent’s hotel room or a juvenile bus race where Bodine pulls off a stunt to bring her team together.All the while, you kind of forget about the question that popped in your head somewhere when it began. What happens to Bodine’s redemption, about doing right over wrong?By the time you get your answers, the film lets go of its satirical tones and becomes serious.It feels easy and convenient but not emotionally satisfying.Yet, Our Brand is Crisis is decently enjoyable fare that is completely watchable for the lead performances, dry humour and a formula done well.Our Brand is CrisisDirector: David Gordon GreenActors: Sandra Bullock, Billy Bob ThorntonRun time: 108 minutes