http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/Ameerpet-dogged-by-several-problems/article14025467.ece

Contrary to its name’s popular connotation, Ameerpet is quite poor in electoral terms. It recorded the lowest voter turnout during the 2009 GHMC elections, with less than a quarter of the electorate turning out to exercise their franchise. That, however, belies the hectic political and campaigning activity being witnessed in the ward now.Reserved earlier for contestants from Scheduled Tribes, Ameerpet recorded 23.1 per cent voting in 2009, when only 5,710 of the 24,644 voters exercised their choice. From disillusionment with local politics due to non-resolution of persistent civic problems and ignorance about contesting candidates, locals proposed varying reasons for poor turnout.“Garbage dumping at the mouth of this road and delayed removal in lifting it makes walking here difficult. It is also an eyesore for visitors to this area,” said V. Biswajeet Singh, a retired bank employee and resident of Shyam Karan Road.“Bad roads, stray menace and poor street-lighting, problems that most of the city is facing, also plague Ameerpet. For the middle income group, the local politician is out of bounds. This may have turned residents away from the elections.” The ward now encompasses the areas Ameerpet, Balkampet and SR Nagar. It is equally commercial and residential, dotted with thick slum pockets. Nearly 48,000 voters are now registered in the ward. The number has swelled since the last election with the inclusion of Balkampet, which was a ward by itself until recently.Ameerpet has also been reserved for women in the general category. Politically, it is among the few wards in the city where BJP and its ally TDP are taking on each other even as the TRS candidate Balkampet’s former TDP corporator is hoping to convince a large chunk of voters who are settlers. If residents across economic strata aspire for better civic infrastructure, the businessmen feel trade is suffering in the area. “Business has taken a hit and those owning properties have seen no rise in rents in the past few years,” said A.N. Shankar, a trader who was part of the larger movement against HMR in the area.“The indecision on acquiring properties for Metro Rail is hurting. The project has also laid waste to roads. Additionally, parking in Ameerpet is woefully inadequate,” he added. Aware that poor voter turnout could render useless all the carefully planned strategies, aspirants are uniting across party lines in urging voters to exercise their franchise.The State Election Commission said it would do its bit in increasing voter awareness in the area. “Our past observations suggest that community reserved wards have smaller turnout. As a general category ward, we hope the voter turnout would be higher,” State Election Commissioner V. Nagi Reddy said.