http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Amidst-suffering-some-reassurance/article14002221.ece

P. Deepak, project manager in a construction firm in Canada, left for Kerala on a day’s notice to his employers to be with his mother, a cancer patient who is receiving palliative care at Ernakulam General Hospital.“The whole family would give her special care after she was diagnosed with the affliction, but it amazed me to see her smile and walk on her own four days after arriving here. I am happy to have brought her to this place,” said an emotional Deepak at a get-together of patients, bystanders, volunteers, doctors and supporting staff at the hospital’s palliative care department on Friday, observed as Palliative Care Day.In the midst of suffering and pain, there was a reassuring smile on everyone’s face, further bolstered by faith in human goodness and bonding. There were others like Deepak — people who had come to the hospital accompanying their loved ones, but have stayed back as volunteers even after their relations were gone.“It’s souls like them who strengthen our faith in life,” said G. Mohan, heading the unit.Screenwriter John Paul, chief guest, recalled some of his poignant interactions with palliative care patients in Kozhikode. “There was this child who was battling metastatic cancer. With just about a few days left on earth, she was worried who would make her grandmother’s birthday cheerful if she wasn’t around. Another child wasn’t very keen on entering heaven unless accompanied by a doting caregiver, a total stranger in his 30s who struck a chord with her just a few days ago. She said she would wait outside until he joined her,” he said in a touching speech in which the unfaltering strength of love was underscored.Actor Seema G. Nair and Kochi Biennale Foundation trustee Bonny Thomas, who coordinates the ‘Arts and Medicine’ programme, also spent time with the bystanders.Dr. Mohan told The Hindu that the hospital had about 40 active volunteers, though training was given to about 140. “Ours is a major training centre in the State in clinical palliative care. There’s a month-and-a-half-long training programme for doctors [93 trained so far] and nurses [300 trained till date].”He exuded confidence in bringing college and school students into palliative care and training them as caregivers. “We bring them once in a while and let them interact with the patients. The student community can contribute in a big way to palliative care,” he said.