http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/kozhikode/Amma-Manassu-unfolds-stories-of-compassion/article13980139.ece

: On the courtyard of the Karaparamba government LP School, around 40 mothers sat together with all the eagerness and anxiety of a student who is prepared to deliver a maiden public address.Interestingly, those mothers were all special invitees to a unique function — Amma Manassu — hosted by the West Kara Residents’ Association on Sunday to extend an informal platform for all mothers to share their beautiful memories associated with their mothers and the experience they felt after embracing motherhood in the passage of time. When a few remained silent as their eyes brimmed with tears, majority opened up their hearts sharing the bountiful warmth and care they enjoyed under the protection of their mothers. “Patience — that was the most treasured quality that I saw in my mother. It is also one of the much admired quality that I find missing in our young generation mothers,” Janakiyamma, an 89- year-old woman, observed while interacting with her younger counterparts at the programme. She also shared that the word ‘mother’ had an indescribable power that one would be able to feel only in life.Mini Salim, who bagged the prize for the best sharing, said the male-dominated Society still had an unsympathetic approach to women though most of them would shower praise on highlighting the motherhood aspect. “In our own families, we should foster a circumstance in which all the family members lend a hand to the mother to finish her household chores and thus express our love and care with a true sense of compassion,” she shared.To mark the day, the organising committee members distributed coconut saplings to all mothers who attended the function. The traditional ‘Puzhukku’, prepared by the male members of the residents’ collective was also another attraction of the gathering. Committee members P.K. Soman, C. Kunhikamu, B. Gopesh and P. Jayachandran were present to lead the programme.