http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/society/An-evening-by-the-sea/article13986418.ece

A buggy carts us through winding paths illuminated by a trail of yellow lights. The ambience, breeze and scent of the sea almost trick us into believing we are far away on an exotic island. Only, we are not. We are just 30 odd kms from the city, nestled amidst the peace and quiet of Vivanta by Taj – Fisherman’s Cove. No blaring of horns, no loud bantering people around; just a few fat ducks that waddle by busily, a colony of frogs that croak officiously and birds camouflaged within the dense foliage, chirping nineteen to the dozen.The buggy stops and out we hop in front of Upper Deck, that stylishly stands by the bay in a fresh avatar, and with a new bistro-style menu inspired by French and Italian family recipes from Paris and Piedmont.There is a warm golden glow about the place from the wicker lanterns hanging overhead. All the tables at the 46-seater restaurant offer a vantage view of the sea. Three grand canopies sit a little further from the rest of the al fresco dining area. These are closer to the sea — a 300-metre walk and you can wade into the cool, frothy waters.Upper Deck has a rather romantic set-up. For nervous first dates, this could be the place, far away from prying acquaintances... rest assured, the nippy sea breeze will keep your hands from getting clammy. For those waiting to pop the question, this could be the place too. And instead of dropping the ring into the usual champagne flute, try putting it in that bowl of French onion soup. It is a delicious concoction of tenderloin consommé, cognac and cheesy croutons that might just make the partner say ‘yes’.The place wakes up at four in the evening and is open till midnight. There are two menus. The sundowner — from 4 to 7 p.m. — lets you grab a drink and munch on favourites like burgers, bruschettas, sandwiches and wraps. The dinner menu post seven features classics such as duck confit, redolent with orange drizzle and an appropriately crisp layer of skin over tender meat, coq au vin with chunks of meat generously braised in red wine (325 ml I am told), and the incredible chicken liver pate, which is complimented beautifully with apple chutney. The roasted scallops are an absolute delight; it’s got no frills, just a dash of pepper, thyme and garlic, and yet, is addictive. Unfortunately, mediocrity gets the better of the leek and goat cheese tart, and the mushroom risotto, and they are a bit of a letdown when compared to their near perfect peers. Don’t forget the Chennai pineapple rasam… it’s a cocktail, spiked with vodka and the strong flavour of cardamom. Then there’s salmon roast with grilled polenta which, even though we are full, doesn’t allow us to throw in the proverbial towel; in this case, napkin.We recommend a short brisk walk to the beach and back, to be able to do justice to the desserts. Also, the beach is a beauty at this time, with a canopy of stars above. Apparently, the entire place seems all the more magical on a full moon night. 15 minutes later, we amble back for a serving of tiramisu and grandma’s chocolate fudge cake. Pop favourites resonate from the speakers, but the roaring of the sea drowns them out. For a change, I don’t miss the music; the rhythmic crashing of the waves seems catchier and more relaxing. And with everything being so laidback, the evening ends up feeling like a vacation.