http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/An-impressive-debut/article13984464.ece

To the nattuvangam and choreography of guru Shanthini Arunagiri, her disciple Sridevi alias K.Shwetha gave her arangetram or debut performance of Bharatanatyam. The deep and mellow tone of singer K.K. Vignesh was aptly supported by L.Subramanyasamy on the violin and Madurai S. Anandhakrishnan on the mridangam.The dancer, dressed in a bright yellow and green costume offered flower petals to " Aindhu karathanai" or Vinayaka in her pushpanjali and followed it up with numerous shiva swaroopas for the Panchakshara mantra and ended with the enactment of killing of Daksha by an enraged Shiva. The quick movements and poses of the dancer made a good first impression on her viewers.The manifold stages of muruga's life, first as he crawls as a bejewelled infant, then as he toddles on his tiny feet, and later strides forward as a dark browed young man decked in sandal paste and rides a majestic peacock, and even dons the guise of an old man to woo Valli, was enacted by the young dancer in a padam beginning, " Thandai Muzhanga"She then performed a varnam in dharmavathi on Lord Shiva and his fish eyed consort, Meenakshi. Combining footwork and abhinaya, she performed the story of the rivalry between Vishnu and Brahma to reach the extremities of Shiva, and the ensuing curse of the talampoo and Brahma himself." Kaal mari Adiya" caught everyone's interest, as the dancer did most of the steps only on one leg.The interlude was enlivened with two melodious numbers by the orchestra, and the dancer returned in a beautiful blue costume to present the mischief perpetrated by the cowherd, Krishna, who had ready replies to all his mother Yashoda's questions.The tillana was sprightly with sharp beats from the mridangist and the dancer kept her energy up to give the piece its due. Two light pieces followed the tillana. One was a kavadi chindu, in which she was joined by two younger boys who carried the kavadi along with her, and then came kutrala kuravanji, in a fancy gypsy costume, singing the vagaries of life in the jungles of the mountain. The dancer displayed confidence in enacting scenes from the lives of gypsies and concluded her presentation successfully.