http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/An-app-that-alerts-drivers-of-the-curve-ahead/article13985468.ece

Global Positioning System (GPS) apps and navigation apps may show you the route to reach your destination. But, a research scholar from the University of Calcutta has devised an application that alerts drivers of curves ahead on the road and is working on extending its functionality to predict the presence of potholes.“GPS units are pre-recorded. But, this application, which processes the images sent by a camera, alerts the driver about the immediate condition of the road,” said Nabanita Basu, the research scholar who presented a paper on the application at the 5th Women’s Science Congress, being held as part of the 103rd Indian Science Congress, here on Wednesday.A camera fitted to the vehicle is programmed to capture one image every minute and send it to the application, which can even be downloaded on a mobile phone. “As soon as the image is processed, in about 1.24 seconds, the application beeps and alerts the driver if there is a curve ahead,” she said.The application has been successfully tested in the laboratory and will soon be tested in road conditions. “The application’s functionality can also be extended to predict the presence of potholes on the road ahead,” Ms. Basu told The Hindu .The application can help prevent accidents as it can be used on metal roads, wooden plank roads, running tracks, snow-covered roads, and off-roads like cart tracks.According the abstract of her paper, the method developed can be extended for manoeuvring auto-pilot cars.“The system can be used to alert long-distance drivers of small and heavy vehicles alike. The work presented is particularly unique as it can effectively adjust to varying road illumination, road structure and surrounding terrain,” the abstract said.Ms. Basu’s guide, Samir Kumar Bandopadhyay, a professor of Computer Science in the University of Calcutta, presented a paper on a software he has developed to correct the distortion of images owing to the angle of view.He said the software could be used in the application designed by Ms. Basu. “When the image taken by a camera fitted on the vehicle is distorted owing to the angle of the capture, this software can rectify the photograph,” he said.