http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/An-unexpected-birthday-gift/article13988524.ece

One evening, late last month, I had a candlelight dinner at a friend’s place in Kathmandu — candlelight not out of choice, but compulsion. Nepal has 12-hour power cuts and the inverter at her home, having been active for too long, had died shortly before my arrival.The meal was hot, simple and delicious: steamed rice, dal, sautéed potatoes, cabbage curry and chicken fry. I am emphasising on the word ‘hot’ because we sat around the dining table in the biting cold, and the sight of steam erupting from the food — cooked with the help of an LPG cylinder purchased for 9,000 Nepali Rupees (160 Nepali Rupees equal 100 Indian Rupees) in the black market — was very comforting.The black market has been flourishing in Nepal ever since the protesting Madhesis, who inhabit the southern plains, blocked their border with India — practically the Himalayan nation’s lifeline — nearly four months ago to demand more rights in its newly-adopted constitution.My friend’s sister and brother-in-law were also present at the dinner, and we had barely started eating when dogs on the street began barking. Everybody at the table, except me, stopped eating. They looked at one another nervously and felt for tremors. Untimely barking of dogs and chirping of birds is usually the sign of an earthquake.Since the floor beneath our feet remained still, everybody resumed eating. The barking of the dogs was most likely the result of a territorial transgression, but the alarm caused showed how the people of Nepal live in constant fear these days.The country has been recording low-intensity earthquakes almost on a daily basis, since April 25 last year, when the one measuring 7.8 on the Richter scale killed nearly 9,000 people and wiped a number of heritage structures off the map. And no one knows when another big one will strike again, as is being constantly predicted: it could be five years from now, five months from now, or — who knows — this very moment while we were having dinner.When the earthquake struck on April 25, my friend was getting a massage at a spa. “The building shook so violently that I was absolutely certain I was going to die,” she said, “but I did not want to be found dead naked, so I jumped up and put my clothes on without wasting a moment. It may sound funny today, but it wasn’t funny back then.”I felt relieved as I climbed down her home and got into the car: her sister and brother-in-law had offered to drop me back to the hotel, the iconic Kathmandu Guest House, where The Beatles had stayed once upon a time.The hotel is one of the very few places in Kathmandu that would seem to have been left totally untouched by the earthquake — freshly painted rooms surrounding a beautiful garden where you could soak in the sun. But the truth is that it lost an entire wing in the calamity, including the rooms that had hosted The Beatles. Thanks to its dynamic owner, Rajan Sakya, the damaged wing was replaced — almost overnight — by a pretty garden.The renovated Kathmandu Guest House embodies the spirit of the people of Nepal: resilient and ever-smiling, not giving you even the faintest idea of the hardships that they have been through or are going through. Today, innumerable buildings in the Kathmandu Valley — homes and heritage structures alike — have wooden or iron beams supporting their walls so that they don’t cave in. How effective these props are, no one knows, but that does not prevent the residents from smiling and looking happy.At Bhaktapur, the ancient town in the Valley located about 12 km from the city of Kathmandu, I stopped at a shop after being attracted by a chunky rudraksha bracelet. The middle-aged woman running the shop quoted a rather steep price and I instantly gave up the idea of buying it, but we still got into a conversation, about the hardships caused by the earthquake and the blockade of the Indian border imposed by the striking Madhesis.“I am sure Pashupatinath” — the most popular name for Lord Shiva in Nepal — “will help us tide over every crisis,” she said.“I went to the Pashupatinath Temple this morning,” I told her, “because today happens to be my birthday.”“Oh really?” She bent over the basket that contained the rudraksha bracelets and picked one for me. “This is a birthday gift for you,” she said.