http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/entertainment/An-anomaly-of-the-good-sort/article13998251.ece

ew Delhi-based band Peter Cat Recording Co’s music has been described as ranging “from gypsy jazz to ballroom waltz to midnight moonlight car chase music”. Those descriptors aren’t exactly accurate but they aren’t inaccurate either, for Peter Cat remains one of the country’s foremost experimental bands, that still manages to retain one, albeit weirdly-shaped, foot in the world of good old rock ’n’ roll. Words alluding to genre and style will cease to matter tonight though, as Peter Cat makes a city stopover in the city. For many, this will be their first time at a Peter Cat show, complete with nerves, apprehension and justifiable excitement, and as for those familiar with the band’s music — spanning three albums and many unreleased live numbers — this will be a homecoming of sorts, a gentle reminder that quality independent music that defies the populist tendencies of today still has a fiercely-dedicated audience.A four-piece gypsy jazz/cabaret band formed in 2009, Peter Cat Recording Co has managed to avoid the most obvious spotlight in a deft, clever manner, and yet retain a charm that endears them to their fans. Regarded as the bonafide it band, they are ‘not rock enough’ for the rock crowd and ‘a bit too indie’ for the indie crowd; PCRC are often labelled an anomaly.Suryakant Sawhney, Karan Singh, Kartik Pillai and Rohan Kulshreshtha form the band’s core, with collaborators flitting in and out of album and live sessions.They also dabble in a variety of other projects — Jamblu, a noise-ambient solo project by guitarist and trumpeteer Kartik Pillai; Lifafa, frontman Sawhney’s pop and disco project with an ode to Bollywood of old; group effort Begum's unabashed psychedelia; and bassist Rohan Kulshreshtha’s expeditions with the Kuru Circus & Orchestra — which all serve to inform and influence the wide PCRC palette.We talked to Kulshreshtha about how all of this eventually coalesces into a PCRC release. “We listen to a variety of music that also overlaps in many cases. As for how songs end up making the cut for PCRC albums, it’s really just anything that feels right. I know that people like to go about [writing albums] genre-wise, but within the band, we have so many songs. We’ve touched upon so many different genres of music; it’s the ones that are cohesive that end up on the album.” It’s been a long-standing practice that songs that haven’t made it to their albums (yet) are given the road-test at their live shows.Last year saw PCRC hit the road with a series of shows across Europe. In 2016, they have got some tentative plans: “REProduce Artists, who are responsible for our bookings, have applied for us to get to South By Southwest (SXSW) in Texas and we’ve hopefully got something coming up in the UK in the middle of this year,” says Kulshreshtha.PCRC’s last visit to Mumbai was on a tour promoting their 2015 album Climax , an album highly regarded among music critics, even perhaps eclipsing the critical acclaim and widespread adoration they received for 2011’s gin-soaked, psychedelic, cabaret-meets-disco Sinema .To the uninitiated, Climax is a curious first listen. Repeated listens, however, do the trick. With most of its songs easily crossing the five-minute mark, the album is as far removed from traditional pop as could be, but retains an immensely adhesive pop-like quality; these are slow-burning, deeply emotive tracks that allow listeners to be immersed in PCRC’s expertly-directed musical theatre.Peter Cat Recording Co. perform at the Hard Rock Cafe in Andheri today. Entry is at Rs 500 with full cover.(The author is a freelance writer)They are a band deemed ‘not rock enough’ and ‘a bittoo indie’ for theindie crowd