http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/An-app-to-guide-KSRTC-commuters-in-Mysuru/article14009958.ece

In its bid to promote and popularise public transport , the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) in Mysuru, will soon be launching an Android-based mobile application that will be integrated with the existing Intelligent Transport System (ITS).ITS was launched in Mysuru for the first time in the country three years ago to revolutionise public transport.KSRTC found in its recent survey that many city residents, especially the younger population and a few other sections of the population, were relying on private transport.If such people get quick access to information on the arrival of buses at the press of a button, they may switch over to buses, discontinuing their own transport like bikes, scooters and cars to some extent.With this in mind, KSRTC has ventured out to develop an application for mobile users with smart phones being the order of the day. To get the best minds for developing its mobile application free of cost, an Appathon, a 48-hour exercise of developing the app that can be accessed from Google Playstore, has been planned in the second week of February.Already, a few student groups have taken it as a challenge and have collected data from KSRTC for developing the app. The app is expected to be ready by the end of next month.KSRTC sources told The Hindu that it will be a challenge for the app developers since real-time information had to be fed to the users. It is a credit to whoever develops the app since ITS is one of its kinds in the country which provides information about the movement of buses on a real-time basis, sources said. The idea is to come out with a few app models and the best one will be launched, sources added.The sources said the app will primarily focus on location-based information. A person will get information on the number of buses and their arrival time at a particular point by accessing the app. “By this way, we can hope to encourage private transport users to shift to public transport,” a KSRTC official said.Under ITS, convenience and reliability of bus services had improved over the last couple of years. The number of buses on less patronised routes have been withdrawn and more buses are being plied on routes which see more passengers. However, there is an issue with regard to the information on the buses which will be catered through the mobile app, sources added.Students top listA recent survey conducted by KSRTC in Mysuru to study the usage of public transport system found that students and those with a monthly salary of not more than Rs. 20,000 are the highest users of its intra-city transport. Almost 80 per cent of bus commuters were students and those in the salaries ranging from Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 6,000; Rs. 6,000 to Rs. 15,000 and Rs. 15,000 to Rs. 20,000 a month, the survey found. KSRTC accessed this information after interviewing over 2,500 bus passengers.“There is still scope to bring many others into the public transport net by providing information which they want for their convenient travel,” a KSRTC source told The Hindu.