http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/An-annual-day-without-a-chief-guest/article13992959.ece

Melaka Manipal Medical College (MMMC), Manipal Campus, celebrated its 18th college day and distributed awards for meritorious students here on Friday.According to a press release issued by Manipal University here on Sunday, the event was unique as there was no chief guest in particular and therefore no speeches.Dean of the College Ullas Kamath presented the annual report along with associate deans Annamma Kurien and Arun Prakash and Vice Chancellor H. Vinod Bhat concluded it with a word in appreciation.The rest of the programme was a good mix of recognition of academic excellence and entertainment. What’s special about the college’s annual days is that it has no announced theme. But, a theme can be perceived as the programme unfolds. It had images of diversity among the students this time. The backdrop, the invocation and the faculty entertainment had diversity written all over.The star of the day was Chu Hui Xin who walked away with the Dr. T.M.A. Pai Gold Medal for the best outgoing student in MBBS Phase I and became the first student in the history of college to be awarded all the top prizes reaching the pinnacle in academics. She attributed her marvellous achievement to her family, faculty and friends.She was the best student in anatomy, physiology and biochemistry. She had the highest aggregate marks in phase I stage I.She was the best student in phase I stage I. She was also the best student in pathology, microbiology, pharmacology and forensic medicine, had the highest aggregate marks in phase I stage IIa.She was the best student in phase I stage IIa and won the Dr. Shobha Nadig Gold Medal in pharamacology. She had a total of seven distinctions in stage I and stage IIa. Besides these, she and also had 100 per cent attendance in both phase I stage I and stage IIa.Certificates of appreciation were awarded to the students who had 100 per cent attendance and the distinction holders. vements were also recognized in the programme.