http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/society/An-empowered-Shakuntala/article13988469.ece

When Mohiniyattam danseuse Uma Tapasyananda requested poet V. Madhusoodanan Nair for lyrics to choreograph for a performance, he suggested that she could work on his poem ‘Gandharavam’. The poet and academic also told her where to begin her recital and what portions she could use for her programme.“It is a long poem and I choreographed the portions the poet suggested. That is what I will be presenting for my performance on January 9. I will be portraying Shakuntala but it is not Kalidasa’s heroine. The Shakuntala that I will depict, as envisaged by Madhusoodanan sir, is an empowered woman, someone who has shaken off all her earthy cares and sorrows. As she looks down on earth from her heavenly home, she sees Dushyanth in a different light, as some one who took advantage of her trust and naivety,” explains Uma.Drawing parallels between nature and man, Uma says Shakuntala becomes a metaphor for nature while Dushyanth symbolises exploitative mankind. Uma says her performances are her way of expressing herself. “Call it my limitations or my drawback, but I feel Mohiniyattam’s strength and individuality lie in abhinaya. So I enjoy performing pieces that emphasise that. Every dance has its own uniqueness and we should be highlighting that in such festivals,” feels Uma.Unwilling to be categorised, all that Uma says is that she enjoys choreographing her own lines or new ones on account of her “inability, perhaps, to do only nritta for a prolonged time.”Coming from an orthodox family, Uma had to overcome protests and objections to pursue her calling as a dancer. So although her recitals are few and far in between Uma says she lives for those moments on the stage.A teacher and choreographer too, Uma says even her students are not many as she insists on them following certain directions – no competitions or even frequent stage performances. “Dance is a passion and when I teach or perform, I want to ensure that we do it the right way,” she says.Uma performs today (7 p.m.) at Vyloppilly Samskriti Bhavan, under the aegis of the ongoing Mudra Festival.