http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Vijayawada/Anam-brothers-to-join-TDP-today/article14003103.ece

Former Ministers Anam Ramanarayana Reddy and Anam Vivekananda Reddy will join the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) in the presence of Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu here on January 17.Announcing this in a media conference on Saturday, Mr. Ramanarayana Reddy said they believed that only the TDP was capable of undoing the injustice that the Congress had meted to A.P by bifurcating it against the wishes of people.“We have tried our best to persuade the Congress not to bifurcate the State, but it did not pay a heed. We knew that we were bound to lose our deposits in 2014 elections, but still had stuck to the party. It is because we believed in its ideology. “We can no longer stay with the party (Congress) which has no repentance for what it did,” he observed.Mr. Ramanarayana Reddy, for whom this is the homecoming having been a member of the Telugu Desam Party during its formative years in 1983, said he had no differences with TDP leaders of his district (Nellore).“I was a founder member of the TDP and had served in the first Cabinet that was headed by the then Chief Minister N.T. Rama Rao. I have no qualms in working with the present leadership, including the party’s rank and file in Nellore district,” he asserted.Asked as to how he could adjust with the BJP which has been the arch-rival of the Congress with a completely different ideology, and a member of the ruling combine in Andhra Pradesh now, Mr. Ramanarayana Reddy said the TDP and the BJP had started sailing together since the 2014 elections in a friendly atmosphere.“Like any alliance, it is for winning the people’s mandate and has nothing to do with ideology. I have invited three TDP MLAs and four MLCs in Nellore district, the in-charge Minister there and other leaders of the party (TDP) for his programme in the city on Sunday,” he added.(We) Can no longer stay with the party (Congress) which has no repentance for what it did- Anam brothers