http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Vijayawada/Anam-brothers-formally-join-TDP/article14005122.ece

Former Congress leaders Anam Ramanarayana Reddy and Anam Vivekananda Reddy, popularly known as Anam brothers, formally joined the Telugu Desam Party along with 2,000 loyalists, at a function here on Sunday.Addressing the gathering, TDP president and Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu showered praises on Nelloreans and recalled the Anam family’s association with the party.“Nelloreans are enterprising and hardworking. Go to any nook and corner of the country, and one finds a hotel managed by a Nellorean. They go in search of opportunities,” he said, adding: “The government is committed to creating opportunities and developing the State.”“The Anam family had worked closely with the TDP when it was founded by N.T. Rama Rao. The brothers took a wise decision by joining the TDP. Their decision will be helpful for the development of the State and for future generations. Concerted and coordinated efforts are needed to achieve our goal of reaching the No. 1 slot in happiness index and development by 2029,” he said. “I am ready to take suggestions from the rickshaw-puller also. But, I will act like a bullet if someone tries to create hurdles in the process of development,” he added.Mr. Naidu said the government had undertaken the gigantic task of inter-linking rivers. “The inter-linking of the Krishna and the Penna will be taken up at the earliest. Water will be released to the Somasila project,” he said.Earlier, Mr. Vivekananda Reddy repeatedly addressed the Chief Minister as Dr. Naidu and said: “At a time when darkness pervaded the State, Dr. Naidu emerged as a ray of hope.”“Some decisions are politically influenced. A few others are for change. And, our joining the TDP is for the development of the State and future generations. We want to follow in the footsteps of Dr. Naidu,” he said.In the same breath, Mr. Vivekananda Reddy came down heavily on YSRC president Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy. “People believed that only Dr. Naidu can develop the State, but not the ‘yuva neta’.“Marx and Kautilya explained Capital in their treatises. But, our ‘yuva neta’ knows only Rs. One lakh crore,” he said.Apart from Mr. Ramanarayana Reddy, MLC Somireddi Chandramohan Reddy, Ministers Devineni Umamaheswara Rao, P. Pulla Rao and P. Narayana were present.