http://www.thehindu.com/features/kids/And-all-that-jazz/article14013963.ece

Slavery was the worst thing to happen in human history. But it gave the world Jazz, a music for every mood.As the Romantic era unfolded and influenced music in the European continent, there were rumblings across the Atlantic Ocean, in the New World. This new world was America. Where Columbus planted his flag thinking it was India. Where the land was rich with untapped resources. Where all you needed, as a colonialist, to get rich was to find cheap labour to mine the land. Where the sad, sad story of African slavery began. Where the birth of a new ground-breaking musical revolution gave us Jazz.So, it’s the 1700s. Farms and plantations in America are being toiled on by cheap labourers shipped over from Africa. And all day long, they dug the ground, planted seeds, watered them, and grew cotton, sugar and other things that their white-skinned masters could sell for a handsome profit in Europe. And when you’re out working in the open fields all day, with no TV or coffee breaks or money, what else can you do but sing?So, the slaves sang and hollered and wailed about their condition in life. Every Sunday, in New Orleans, they were allowed to congregate in an area called Congo Square. Here, they would play their African drums, sing and swing to songs that helped them break free of their chains in real life. In music, they voiced their sadness and hope. And slowly, by the turn of the 20 Century, after slavery was abolished, these African-Americans set out as musical bands. They played at bars, night-clubs, out on the open streets, anywhere. Their music was their freedom. And that is what Jazz music is, basically. Freedom.Fresh and freeNew Orleans was a multicultural hotbed. You had Spanish people, the French, the English, the African. All these musical influences added to the openness, fusion and flexibility in Jazz. The Jazz musician is free to explore the melodic and harmonic possibilities in any piece of music.It’s all about improvisation, making up musical patterns on the spot, and imagination. And all this needs to have a shuffling, swinging beat that will make your feet squirm and tap.In Jazz, you can play virtually anything, and it will sound different from the original. This is because Jazz musicians do this weird quirky thing called syncopation. This is kind of being mischievous with rhythm, melody and harmony. A Jazz musician could take the happy-sounding “Twinkle twinkle, little star” and make it sound like the bittersweet story of a new star being born in a bad, bad world.Jazz has polyphony like no other music. Every member of a jazz ensemble will be doing his or her own thing, and sound like kids stumbling and staggering about the room, drunk from a sugar rush.But however much they frolic and gambol, the walls of the room contain them (in case you missed it, the room is the original tune, and the kids are the musical notes). And this created totally radical chords that were both absurd and yet fresh.Jazz itself has undergone a lot of evolution in the 100-odd years of its life. It began as New Orleans Jazz, or Ragtime, whose sound was very brassy, with a whole lot of trumpets and cymbals. Then in the 1900s came Swing music, Blues, Bebop, Free Jazz, Dixieland, Cool Jazz, Modal Jazz, or Jazz-Rock. These used clarinets, pianos, saxophones, trombones, double bass, and African rhythmic instruments like the conga or the berimbau.Artistes like Louis Armstrong, Charles Bolden or Cab Calloway each added their own sincere contributions to the art form. And today, you have someone like Brad Mehldau tinker with and transform famous rock songs, and all that jazz!