http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Anniversary-fete-of-Brennen-College-begins/article14005765.ece

: Inaugurating the year-long 125th anniversary of the Government Brennen College here on Monday, Governor P. Sathasivam said the evolution of college from a free school using the endowment of Englishman Edward Brennen into a higher educational institution of excellence is inspiring.In his inaugural speech on the college campus, Mr. Sathasivam said the deployment of knowledge most judiciously was most important in a knowledge society. Efficient utilisation of resources can create a world of good in education and health sectors, he noted. Stressing that reforming and refining students to make them good citizens is the purpose of education, he said the students should be groomed in the basic tenets of the Indian culture. He further added that the Indian concept of education stressed importance to imparting spiritual education as well.The Governor said whenever he receives petitions from students, parents, teachers or the public, he forwards them to the Chief Minister’s Special Cell within 24 hours for initiating action. If the grievances concern matters in universities, he forwards then to the respective Vice-Chancellors. If the grievances cannot be remedied, the universities concerned should at least cite the reasons for that, he said.Mr. Sathasivam also urged people’s representatives on the dais that they should utilise a portion of their developmental funds allotted to them as MPs or MLAs for developmental works in government colleges and schools. He said he urges the organisations such as Rotary International and Lions Club and others, when they invite him to attend their functions, to first open 10 modern toilets in schools before they come back to invite him. He told the audience about his initiative to institute the Chancellor’s award for the best university in the State after he assumed charge as Governor. The State government readily accepted his proposal to allocate Rs. 5 crore to be granted to the university adjudged the best, he noted.Minister of Rural Development and Cultural Affairs K.C. Joseph presided. P.K. Sreemathi and K.K. Ragesh, MPs, K.K. Narayanan, MLA, Kannur University Vice Chancellor M.K. Abdul Khader, Deputy Director of Collegiate Education Balan K. Kunhabu, were present.