http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Another-late-night-party-at-KRS-this-time-by-MP-himself/article14005229.ece

Even as the safety concern of the Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) is growing, the trend of organising late-night parties at the reservoir is back. C.S. Puttaraju, MP, organised a late-night party for sports enthusiasts of Mysuru at Brindavan Gardens on January 14.Besides Mr. Puttaraju, a host of Revenue and police officials from Mandya, and over 100 people from Mysuru attended the party. Loudspeakers and high-powered lights were installed at the KRS for the event.According to sources in Cauvery Neeravari Nigam Ltd. (CNNL), those who attended the party spoilt the environment at the reservoir by throwing plastic waste, bottles and leftover food all over.BannedThe CNNL has declared the garden area as ‘plastic-free’, ‘smoking-free’ and ‘liquor-free’. Organising such parties is also banned as the reservoir is facing threat from militant outfits.“However, all such rules remain only on paper when politicians organise such parties,” a senior CNNL officer said.According to him, officials were under tremendous political pressure to give permission for the party.An all-night party for a sky-gazing event was held at the KRS backwaters on December 13. “We had filed a complaint with the police demanding action against the organisers of that party. We had to issue permission for January 14th party as the organiser was the local MP,” the officer said.Mr. Puttaraju was unfazed when mediapersons questioned him on the issue on Saturday. “I have organised 100 such parties at the KRS,” he said. Mr. Puttaraju was in KRS to participate in the Irrigation Consultative Committee of the KRS.Housing Minister M.H. Ambareesh said he would discuss the issue with officials.Meanwhile, farmers’ leader and MLA Puttannaiah said he would take up the issue with the Chief Minister and demand action against CNNL officials. “The garden has been reduced to a pathetic condition. It is an irony that there are boards all over that say ‘Keep the area clean’,” he said.I have organised 100 such parties at KRS.C.S. Puttaraju,MP