http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Thiruvananthapuram/Answer-sheets-to-have-students%E2%80%99-photos/article13995129.ece

Answer sheets in the Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) and Indian School Certificate (ISC) examinations will bear photographs and other identification details of students from this year. The move is aimed at ensuring transparency and smooth conduct of the examinations.Gerry Arathoon, chief executive and secretary of the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations, said, “Under this initiative, answer books will carry photographs of the student as well as their UID number which they tend to fill up wrongly due to exam stress.”Till 2015, each examinee had to write her/his name, unique identification number (UID), and the name of the subject on the answer sheet booklets.From 2016, the answer sheet will have students’ photograph, name, UID, and name of the subject printed on it. The number of pages of the answer booklets will remain the same – 16 for ICSE and 20 for ISC. The portion of the top-sheet of a booklet that will bear the name and photograph will be torn off and retained by the council before the scripts are distributed for evaluation.This will be done to ensure confidentiality. Once the scripts are marked, the results will be prepared by matching the UIDs with the corresponding names in the council's database. The new system is aimed at preventing mistakes committed by students while writing their names and UIDs.The council will send the answer booklets of the students in separate packets. Each packet will have the photograph and other identity details of the student printed on it. Each sealed packet will contain the answer booklets of all subjects in which the particular student will take the examination. That means if a school has 150 ICSE examinees, it will receive as many packets containing answer booklets.Till 2015, the council used to send the answer sheets in bundles of up to 500 booklets each. The booklets were distributed according to their serial numbers. Separate sets of answer sheets for every examinee were introduced by the council to streamline the system.