http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Kochi/Antibiotic-policy-of-State-to-be-floated-soon/article14016633.ece

The State will be soon coming out with an antibiotic policy, said Health Minister V. S. Sivakumar, while inaugurating an international symposium on ‘Antibiotic stewardship and infection control and prevention.’He said the indiscriminate and unscientific dispensation of antibiotics is affecting public health. While this is a pan-Indian problem, it needs to be taken head on in a State which has the status for being among the top consumers of antibiotics, said the Minister.Prescribing antibiotics for illnesses where it is not required, patients not keeping with the compliance of dosage and self treatment are among the challenges of public health on the issue.Such irrational habits while dealing with antibiotics lead to microbes becoming more powerful against the antibiotics. Since antibiotics are the only remedy for certain dangerous disease conditions, the judicious use of antibiotics have to be put in practice, said the Minister.The antibiotic policy will also help to cut down on the cost of treatment to a large extent, he added.The policy is being prepared with the help of professional bodies of doctors and paramedical associations. Guidelines for treatment will also be brought out in this regard, said Mr. Sivakumar.He also released an infection control manual at the programme that was received by Dr. K. Ellangovan, secretary, Health department, who presided over the function. G. R. Gokul, Arogya Kerala director, R. Ramesh, Health Services director, Director, Medical Education, Ramla Beevi, State Drug Controller P. Hariprasad and IMA State president Dr. Jayaprakash were among those who spoke.Dr. Alison Holmes, co-director, National Centre for Infection Prevention and Management and professor of Infectious Diseases, Imperial College, LondonDirector, Dr. Kamini Walia, chief, antibiotic stewardship programme and antimicrobials, Indian Council of Medical Research, Dr. Arti Kapil, Head, Department of Microbiology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, were among those who participated in the programme. Dr. Sanjeev Singh, medical superintendent and infection control head at Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences, moderated the symposium.