http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/Anubhav-1971/article14012142.ece

How do you experience change? Who makes the tough choice or finds a convenient way out? For good or worse? Who is to judge right and wrong in a marriage, the bliss and the anguish, to be decided by two souls, who forge the bonding on a foundation of faith? And what if the very foundation is shaken by a visitor from the past…Basu Bhattacharya weaves a tale around two characters who rediscover their love for each other after undergoing a torrid phase before self-realisation dawns.This was Tanuja, a much under-rated actor, at her best. This film is about Tanuja alone despite the presence of the gigantic Sanjeev Kumar. There are long spells when the versatile Sanjeev Kumar is reduced to a mere spectator as Tanuja calls the shots, literally, as an actor, and also the character of Meeta that she plays stupendously.Tanuja, the peppy next-door girl of the ’60s, when she seduced Dev Anand with the sensuous “Raat Akeli Hai” or swirled to “Pretty Pretty Pretty Priya” or floored the audience with “Baag Mein Kali Khili” in a swimsuit, is a sari-clad protagonist in this film. She radiates through the movie, giving an exceptional display of her acting prowess, living the role of a neglected wife perfectly. Of a housewife who regains her status in the home that is hardly a home. “A hotel,” she protests. She transforms it into a cosy abode by adopting a daring approach. She assumes the aggressive part in the drama that finds a place in your heart even if the slow pace at times looks a pretentious ploy to explore angles.Marital discord was said to be a personal part of Bhattacharya’s life that prompted him to share it amply with a trilogy on the subject. “Anubhav” was followed by “Avishkaar” and “Greh Pravesh”, all setting a trend and appealing to different sections of the society. Of course, the theme was common – discontent in urban lifestyle of a married couple – and all three movies extracted stellar performances from the artists.“Anubhav” was marked by some exceptional songs from Geeta Dutt (“Meri Jaan Na Kaho Meri Jaan” and “Koi Chupke Se Aake) and a soulful solo by Manna Dey (“Phir Kahin Koi Phool Khila”). Music was secondary to the narrative that grows on you in a matured style that was Bhattacharya’s forte.“Anubhav” is about Meeta, who leads a lonely life in a mansion. Her husband Amar Sen (Sanjeev Kumar) pursues a career of an ambitious editor, a workaholic who is dedicated to his profession at the cost of ignoring his responsibilities at home. Six years of marriage have not brought Meeta joy since there is little intimacy between the two. Her craving to start a family is conveyed in the opening frames through a child left to fend for itself in a party that strictly involves grown-ups. Meeta’s concern for the weeping child, begging attention, stirs the mother within her to the fore. It is her journey to rediscover herself that makes this a well-crafted film.The urban landscape of Bombay is captured stunningly in black and white, the slums and skyscrapers co-existing. The signature All India Radio tune, marking the beginning of the day, is a nostalgic throwback to the days when life was easy paced and so non-commercial. For Meeta, however, the world revolves around the servants at home, her husband leaving home in a dash and returning in an amble, exhausted from the demands of the office. The two drift away and are reduced to strangers in the bed, the estrangement growing on the couple to devastating effect.Taking charge of the home for the first time, Meeta dismisses the servants barring Hira (AK Hangal). The lady of the house is in control of her home and Amar’s life. There are drawn close and sparks fly as they seek salvation for the precious time lost. They drive staleness out of their home and lives with Meeta the driving force. She takes the lead in showing Amar the path to marital joy even as Hira, the old servant sees a stable future for his lovable master.After reaching a sort of dead end in their marriage, Meeta and Amar are vibrant at their new-found love when Shashi Bhushan (Dinesh Thakur) enters their life to rock the stage. He is Meeta’s first love, a past she had conveniently forgotten, or chosen to forget following her marriage. She makes her displeasure known when he comes knocking on the door. “How did you get my address?” she snaps at him, little realising that Shashi would find a job in Amar’s office. When the husband discovers their past, his ego creates a storm in the peaceful household. The marriage is on the rocks but Meeta steps in to win her husband back but not before the man comes to realise his follies too.In a symbolic gesture of obliterating her past, Meeta kicks the door shut when Shashi leaves after a brief visit. The climax draws the best out of Tanuja the actor and Meeta. There is no melodrama as she confronts Amar and traces her journey from childhood to adolescence and marriage. “Was never asked, was only told,” she asserts, without once raising her voice. Her thirst for love leads Meeta to yearn for Shashi’s company before Amar comes into her life. She tellingly reminds Amar, “My six hours with Shashi, when he never touched me, were sweeter than the six years of married life.”Genre: Social dramaDirector: Basu BhattacharyaCast: Sanjeev Kumar, Tanuja, Dinesh Thakur, A. K. Hangal, O. P. KohliScreenplay: Basu BhattacharyaLyrics: Gulzar, Kapil KumarDialogue: Kapil Kumar, Sagar SarhadiMusic: Kanu RoyBox office status: Hit