http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/AP-ideal-investment-destination-says-Jaitley/article13992104.ece

Union Finance Minister Arun Jaitley on Sunday inaugurated CII Partnership Summit-cum-Sunrise Andhra Pradesh Investment Summit. Visakhapatnam has been spruced up for the big event, as it is the first being hosted to showcase investment opportunities in Andhra Pradesh post-bifurcation.AP is an ideal investment destination and the Chief Minister began with a big bang by achieving 11 per cent growth rate, remarkable for any new State, Jaitley said in his address.During the summit, MoUs for projects with an investment of Rs. 2 lakh crore, some of them big ticket projects, are expected to be signed. This is the 22nd edition of CII Partnership Summit. Unprecedented security arrangements have been made for the summit at APIIC Harbour Park.A performance showcasing different forms of folk dances and cinema choreography along classical dance form Kuchipudi was staged to welcome the delegates.>Also read: Live updates on inauguration of AP CII Partnership SummitAndhra Pradesh has the potential to grow at 12 per cent annually contributing to the nation growing at nine per cent, Secretary DIPP Amitabh Kant said.Reliance ADA Group is set to deepen its ties in the State upon signing a MoU with the State Government to set up a Naval manufacturing establishment at Rambili. The company’s chief Anil Ambani announced an investment of over Rs. 5000 crore in state-of-the-art naval manufacturing facility.Welcoming the gathering, Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu, who received a rousing reception from 1400-odd delegates, 350 of them from 41 countries including the United States, China, Australia, Germany and UK. “We are confident of emerging as the most developed state of India with highest happiness index by 2029,” he said.Mr. Naidu said they were looking forward to host state-of-the-art R&D labs, education institutes of global repute, manufacturing centres of excellence and a thriving service industry to support both government and private enterprise. “I welcome you to partner with us in this journey of growth and excellence and urge you to make Andhra Pradesh your business destination,” Mr. Naidu said.Several corporate big wigs including Adi Gorej, Baba Kalyani, G.M. Rao and others will participate in eight plenary sessions during the three-day event.