http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/AP-to-outsource-upkeep-of-hospitals/article13976947.ece

Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu on Friday said as part of reforms in the health sector, maintenance of government hospitals, Primary Health Centres and Community Health Centres would soon be outsourced. He also announced constitution of a special committee to suggest reforms in the NTR Health Scheme (NTRHS).Addressing a public meeting after inaugurating the medical tests wing under the NTR HS (formerly Arogyasri) and a 102 call centre through remote system here, Mr. Naidu said private persons wouldhandle disposal of bio-medical waste and maintenance of basic infrastructure like beds, cots and toilets in Government hospitals. More number of medical shops selling generic medicines would come up at government hospitals to make medicines affordable to the needy, he said.Mr. Naidu said nearly 55,000 medical tools and equipment were lying unused in government-run hospitals across the State for want of repairs.Funds to the tune of Rs. 500 crore would be needed to fix them and put them to use again. He said private companies would be engaged to repair medical equipment worth Rs. 200 crore for now.The Chief Minister also inaugurated a 100-bed wing on the premises of Eluru Government Hospital, exclusively opened for treatment of pregnant women and delivery cases.‘Reforms need of the hour’ Stating that reforms were the need of the hour to upgrade government hospitalson a par with the private medical facilities, he said he wanted the NTR HS to be foolproof to extend the best medical facilities to the poor and the needy sections.Referring to the 102 Service, he said the objective was to take medical service to the doorstep of pregnant women in rural areas and slum habitations in the urban pockets. Mr. Naidu said from February 1, allCommunity Health Centres would be in a position to conduct 40 lab tests while PHCs would be in a position to perform 19 different medical tests besides operating the facility of ‘Mother and Child Express’ ambulances.He said steps would be initiated to fill 500 doctor posts and 1,000 staff nurse posts at the earliest and bio-metric system would be introduced in all hospitals, PHCs and community centres.The Chief Minister sought to clarify that henceforth, long leaves for doctors would not be permitted.Health Minister Kamineni Srinivas, P. Manikyala Rao, P. Sujatha, MPs Maganti Babu, Gokaraju Gangaraju and others were present.