http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Apollo-doctors-put-chronic-smoker-on-road-to-recovery/article14009662.ece

Doctors at the Apollo Speciality Hospitals here have successfully removed a life-threatening blood clot on the in a chronic smoker’s right leg with the help of high-end equipment, timely diagnosis and immediate medical treatment.Nadeem, a 39-year-old man living in Fish Market area, has been a regular smoker for the past 20 years. A few days ago, he complained of severe pain in his right leg which aggravated as the days passed by. With his condition worsening, his friends admitted him to the Apollo Speciality Hospitals. In view of the extreme pain of Nadeem, he was first treated by the emergency wing doctors who found that his leg had lost sensitivity and that he could not move it either. After diagnostic tests, the leg was found to be not showing any pulse.“Nadeem underwent Doppler test which confirmed the inadequate blood supply to his leg. Further tests conducted at Cath Lab indicated that there was severe blood clot in his femoral artery,” said Dr. Vijay Amarnath Reddy, consultant cardiologist of the hospital.Giving more details of the patient, Dr. Amarnath said that Nadeem approached the hospital at the right time which helped in immediate diagnosis, avoiding the risk of amputation. Had it been late, the condition would have deteriorated and could lead to the need of amputation.He said that the big blood clot in Nadeem’s leg was dissolved with the help of blood dissolving agent that was injected through a plastic tube from his left hip. The vaccine, which costs nearly Rs. 40,000, was administered uninterruptedly for 24 hours.Stating that smoking has high chances of causing peripheral arterial disease like Nadeem’s case, Dr. Amarnath stressed the need for increasing awareness on the need for taking immediate medical help. Mr. Nadeem said that initially he could not bear the pain and his leg seemed not to be a part of his body, but now he was feeling that he got his leg back.Nadeem, a smoker for the past 20 years, was suffering from severe pain in his leg and could not move it