http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Kochi/Apparels-park-project-at-Angamaly-gets-approval/article13975864.ece

Decks have been cleared for setting up an apparels park in Angamaly with the State Industries Department giving in principle approval for the Rs. 11-crore project.The proposed 40,000-sq. ft. facility will comprise a design factory with advanced facilities; space for individual units with 50 to 75 workers as well as a training institute, said Gracy Thomas, managing director of the Angamaly-based Mahila Apparels Garments Cluster.As per the current project report, 10 per cent of the cost will be borne by Mahila Apparels Cluster and the rest of the money is expected to come from the State government.With the establishment of the state-of-the-art facility, business at the garments cluster is expected to go up three times. At present there are 73 units working out of the garments cluster, which has a turnover of Rs. 1.25 crore annually. Each of the units has an average worker strength of 10 to 15.Business at the garments cluster has already received big attention with its success and being located close to the international airport at Nedumbassery is expected to boost business for the cluster.Establishment of the park will also give a boost to its export business.The garments cluster now directly exports shirts to Oman. Once the park is established, production of shirts is expected to go up to 500 per day from the current 200 pieces per day, said Ms. Thomas. The launch of the garments cluster in 2007 has given a big impetus to the garments business in an around Angamaly with the cluster members sourcing large stocks of raw materials from places Ahmedabad, Surat and Mumbai and supplying them to the garments units. Bulk purchase has helped reduce the cost of the raw materials.Former general manager of Ernakulam District Industries Centre B. Prasannakumar said that the Mahila Apparels Garments Cluster was one of the most successful of the many clusters established in the State since 2007. The clusters in operation now include the rice millers’ cluster in Kalady; plywood, furniture and plastic clusters near Perumbavoor.