http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/App-for-candidates-contesting-GHMC-polls/article14005152.ece

If mobile apps in the past have been launched for voters, then the latest one is strictly for the candidates contesting the GHMC elections. Named ‘Mera Leader’, the app has been developed by IT professionals from the city to help in better electioneering.Through the app, the candidates can access exhaustive data of the voter information from their respective wards.“We learnt that the voting percentage in the 2009 GHMC elections was very low. As per our research, people did not even know their corporators’ names. The reason must be that the candidates could not reach out to the public. Hence, we have brought out the app so that the candidates can plan and convey their vision to the voters effectively,” said Amanullah Khan, CEO, Raylabs Technologies, which developed the app.The app is designed in such a way that it can categorise the voters in all the 150 wards under various age groups and also give out information regarding houses with large number of voters. According to Mr. Khan, the app can help cut down on campaigning budgets of the candidates in fray with various features that can help in better management of pre-polling activities.The app will be priced at Rs. 15,000, but there is more to it. The people behind the initiative have promised to return the entire amount to those corporators who succeed in fulfilling some of their promises in the next one year. “Initially, we had collected data of thousands of widows and old age persons who are not getting monthly pension.Instead of pursuing those cases on individual basis, we thought of developing this app so that we could involve all the contestants of the GHMC elections in addressing this issue,” said Syed Khalid, one of the designers of the app. The techies said that their survey on corporators’ performances after one year would mainly focus on seeing if students and pensioners had benefited from the work of the local leaders.To get this app, interested candidates can register on www.myghmc.com .Candidates can access exhaustive data of voter information from respective wards through the app