http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/Arrangements-in-place-for-Monday-test-says-Gopal-Rai/article13979402.ece

The Delhi government has already declared the car rationing scheme a success, though the real test will be on Monday, the first full-fledged working day since the scheme as launched on January 1. The Aam Aadmi Party government is making arrangements in full swing.Delhi Transport Minister Gopal Rai said on Sunday that adequate arrangements have been made, as part of which volunteers will use hidden cameras to take photographs of violators and additional police forces will be deployed to ensure its effective compliance.With all eyes set on Delhi, and especially on how the scheme will work on Monday, Mr. Rai held a coordination committee meeting, which was attended by senior officers from Traffic Police, Delhi Police, Civil Defence forces, Metro officials and other agency heads engaged in implementation.The government’s move to ask volunteers, mainly comprising civil defence personnel, NCC and NSS cadets, to click pictures assuming significance as they were initially asked to focus on mindset change by resorting to polite tactics like handing out roses.“As we saw that on Day One of this pilot project, people came out in odd-numbered vehicles and on the second day, even-numbered vehicles plied on the Capital’s roads. This, in itself, is an indication that the mindset of people towards environment is changing and I salute all Delhiites for this success,” the Minsiter said during a press conference.The government said the DTC will possibly ferry around 64 lakh commuters from Monday onwards, much more than the usual figures, while the Delhi Metro is expected to carry 32 lakh commuters against the previous data of 26 lakh people daily.“Civil defence volunteers will be given mobile camera and hidden cameras to track violators. Very strong monitoring will be resorted to and no soft approach will be taken. Additional 100 teams of traffic police will be fielded on roads to monitor the scheme,” he said when asked for details of the plan from Monday onwards.Mr. Rai told journalists that the government has received information about some people trying to sabotage the implementation of the scheme.“One person wrote on my Twitter account that some miscreants will be sent from Meerut and adjoining areas of western U.P., and Haryana on Monday to protest on Delhi roads. I don’t know how true this is, but I have received such an information for the first time. This shows how some nervous people can stoop to such levels because of our success.”He has already informed the Traffic Police about the tweet and warned them of a possibility of chaos. “We will deploy more volunteers to ensure that people aren’t inconvenienced. Some people want to show the AAP in bad light.”When asked if these will be AAP volunteers, he said only civil defence volunteers will be out on streets. As the strength of volunteers on roads had dropped on Saturday, he said there will be more than 100 teams of volunteers to keep vigil from Monday.