http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Arrangements-in-full-swing-in-Udupi-for-Paryaya-festival/article13975956.ece

Arrangements for the Paryaya festival to be held here on January 18 are in full swing, according to coordinators of committees formed to supervise different aspects of the festival.They were speaking at a function held here to release the invitation for the festival. G. Shankar, businessman, released the invitation.Ratna Kumar, member of the Paryaya Finance Committee, said that the budget for the festival had been estimated at Rs. 3.2 crore. The committee had collected Rs. 50 lakh through donations and also approached banks. “We are confident of raising another Rs. 1.5 crore. But we will be facing a shortage of about Rs. 1 crore,” he said. The cost of holding cultural programmes was estimated at Rs. 60 lakh. The committee had approached district in-charge Minister Vinay Kumar Sorake, who had promised to provide funds from the Department of Kannada and Culture. Two private companies had agreed to bear the costs of the lunch to be provided on January 18, which was expected to be over Rs. 50 lakh as a large number of devotees were expected, Mr. Kumar said.The Rajangana Hall could only accommodate 3,000 devotees for the Paryaya Durbar function. Hence, a new makeshift hall would be erected at the Rajangana parking lot. This hall would be able to accommodate 7,000 persons. The Police Department would provide adequate security and install CCTV cameras at vital points, Mr. Kumar said.Keshavaraya Prabhu, coordinator of Paryaya Housing Committee, said that the committee had got 35 flats to accommodate 100 families. As many as 25 households had agreed to host guests during the festival. This was besides other staying accommodation made by the committee, he said.M.L. Samaga, coordinator of Paryaya Cultural Committee, said that unlike previous Paryaya festivals, this time cultural programmes would be held at three stages.The Poornaprajna Stage would be erected on the Car Street, the Adhokshaja Mantapa on the eastern side of the Rajangana parking lot, while the Ananda Tirtha Mantapa would be erected on the main area of Rajangana parking lot. Cultural programmes would be held by the Alva’s Education Foundation at the Ananda Tirtha Mantapa on January 14, 15 and 16, he said.Murali Kadekar, coordinator, said that arrangements for the Pura Pravesha or customary entry to the city to be held at 4 p.m. on January 4 were in final stages.Vishwesha Tirtha Swami would be brought in a procession from Palimar to Udupi on Monday.Vidyadheesha Tirtha Swami of Palimar Mutt would do the felicitation address at the civic reception function at 7.30 p.m., he said.