http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Art-ahead/article13984484.ece

Artists went through a mixed 2015. We saw an attempt to recapture the cultural space and its myth, but not its realities. 2016 will reflect this difficult learning.Art will respond and fearlessly.Emergence of new perspectives2015 witnessed a clash between students, artists, writers, musicians, readers, viewers, listeners on one side and the ruling class on the other.This situation required us to think about histories and institutions, and 2016 can be a year where we re-learn and re-think the values and ideas behind them. In this context, the various multidisciplinary arts projects involving young artists meeting to form new cultural landscapes as well as students' projects for better infrastructure and technology that will happen in India this year are noteworthy. The Student's Biennale 2016, put together by 15 young curators, and ABC (Art By Children) are educational initiatives of the Kochi Biennale Foundation that will run parallel to the Biennale. These hold the promise of the future.Alternative venuesMany Indian projects, especially masters travelled abroad in 2015 which showed the entry of India in to established museums as an art Patron. Internationally, Okwui Enwezor's Venice Biennale has made a strong statement for art outside elite museum cultures. It was an invitation for change. Such a move is under way in India as well. Alternative venues for art that involve 'recycling' the built environment will come up in the coming years. Even being a gallerist in the Indian context is slowly undergoing reform towards more responsibility. It is very heartening to see that there is a collective effort in building an audience for contemporary art taking inspiration from some of the recent art exhibitions which changed the perception of art and art-making.The rise of the young collectorThere is a rise in art collectors especially among youngsters as a new wave of art appreciation can take place with many private collections going public through museum projects. The idea of a gallery being a site of learning that created art enthusiasts and collectors means that the collector has the responsibility to make available art to the public. 2016 will see many corporates are entering the artworld interested in sustaining and archiving relevant art and their efforts include projects focusing on building patronage and encouraging young talents. The public will become a key participant in contemporary art and the New Year will see more hope in this much needed process.Art calendarA great list of shows awaits us in 2016, including many international biennales: the Moscow International Biennale for young art, Venice Architecture Biennale, Manifesta in Zurich, Sydney Biennale and many others. The international art world is also looking forward to the third edition of Kochi-Muziris Biennale, which will be curated by renowned artist Sudarshan Shetty. There is also great promise in the curatorial directions that many Indian museums are taking, including the NGMA - for example the exhibition The State of Architecture: Practices and Processes in India- and private museums like KNMA in New Delhi. Delhi ArtFair which begins on Jan 28 will become a meeting point for many art conversations.Generally, there's now an increasing confidence by which Indian artists and institutions are speaking, rather than being spoken for.....also, many contemporary art projects are emerging or continuing with great rigour that speak not just to a global art world, but to regional and national concerns as well. Art will merge boundaries.Art movementsThere are also movements towards the empowerment of the art in many parts of India led by artists. For example, a movement about 'art workers' is arising in Kochi with a creative coming together of young artists from Kerala. The group ‘Kalakakshi’ discusses the conditions and possibilities of artistic labour, power of art education, the circulation of art for empowerment of people, and the need for state patronage. This could be a new emerging argument from artists fighting for their own existence towards creating a nourishing and sustaining a fresh atmosphere for art.