http://www.thehindu.com/sci-tech/science/Artificial-Intelligence-pioneer-Marvin-Minsky-dead/article14021351.ece

Marvin Minsky, who combined a scientist’s thirst for knowledge with a philosopher’s quest for truth as a pioneering explorer of artificial intelligence, work that helped inspire the creation of the personal computer and the Internet, died on Sunday night in Boston. He was 88.His family said the cause was a cerebral haemorrhage.Well before the advent of the microprocessor and the supercomputer, Mr. Minsky, a revered computer science educator at MIT, laid the foundation for the field of artificial intelligence by demonstrating the possibilities of imparting common-sense reasoning to computers.“Marvin was one of the very few people in computing whose visions and perspectives liberated the computer from being a glorified adding machine to start to realise its destiny as one of the most powerful amplifiers for human endeavours in history,” said Alan Kay, a computer scientist and a friend and colleague of Mr. Minsky’s.Fascinated since his undergraduate days at Harvard by the mysteries of human intelligence and thinking, Mr. Minsky saw no difference between the thinking processes of humans and those of machines. Beginning in the early 1950s, he worked on computational ideas to characterise human psychological processes and produced theories on how to endow machines with intelligence.Mr. Minsky, in 1959, co-founded the MIT Artificial Intelligence Project (later the Artificial Intelligence Laboratory) with his colleague John McCarthy, who is credited with coining the term “artificial intelligence.”Beyond its artificial intelligence charter, however, the lab would have a profound impact on the modern computing industry, helping to impassion a culture of computer and software design. It planted the seed for the idea that digital information should be shared freely, a notion that would shape the open-source software movement, and it was a part of the original ARPAnet, the forerunner to the Internet.Variety of disciplinesMr. Minsky’s scientific accomplishments spanned a variety of disciplines. He designed and built some of the first visual scanners and mechanical hands with tactile sensors, advances that influenced modern robotics.In 1951 he built the first randomly wired neural network learning machine, which he called Snarc. And in 1956, while at Harvard, he invented and built the first confocal scanning microscope, an optical instrument with superior resolution and image quality still in wide use in the biological sciences.His own intellect was wide-ranging and his interests were eclectic. While earning a degree in mathematics at Harvard he also studied music, and as an accomplished pianist, he would later delight in sitting down at one and improvising complex baroque fugues.Mr. Minsky was lavished with many honours, notably, in 1970, the Turing Award, computer science’s highest prize.He went on to collaborate, in the early ’70s, with Seymour Papert, the renowned educator and computer scientist, on a theory they called “The Society of Mind,” which combined insights from developmental child psychology and artificial intelligence research. — New York Times News Service