http://www.thehindu.com/sport/cricket/Arun-Karthick-has-grown-in-stature/article14021541.ece

K.B. Arun Karthick’s numbers for the Ranji season so far are good. Take a closer look, and see them in the context of Assam’s other performers, and you will realise they are, in fact, staggering.In eight matches for Assam this season, the right-handed Karthick has 723 runs at 55.61. The next best for Assam, both in terms of runs and averages, is Amit Verma with 342 at 24.42.The 29-year-old Karthick, shouldering enormous responsibility, had almost single-handedly ensured Assam’s qualification for the Ranji knock-out phase. The significance of his runs can be gauged from the impact it had on the big games. Against a probing Karnataka attack, Karthick’s battling second innings unbeaten 115 at Guwahati enabled Assam escape defeat and hang on to first-innings lead.Assam eventually qualified; just one point ahead of Delhi and two in front of Karnataka, both of whom missed out.Against Delhi, Karthick’s efforts of 81 and 55 not out on the chase at Guwahati were among the highlights of a headline-grabbing five-wicket win.His 151 at Guwahati gave Assam the lead over Rajasthan. His second innings 48 was a crucial contribution in Assam’s six-wicket victory over Haryana on a seaming track in Lahli. Then, on a “green, damp pitch” at Pune, Karthick’s 130 provided Assam the lead over Maharashtra.This top-order batsman has come in at No. 5 this season for the team’s cause, donned the wicket-keeping gloves in six matches, grown in stature. “As a senior professional and vice-captain of the team, there were expectations from me. I enjoyed the challenge,” Karthick said to The Hindu.When the Walajapet-born former Tamil Nadu batsman — he still turns out for Vijay CC in the TNCA first division league — left the State two seasons ago for want of opportunities despite being among the runs, he did so with a lot of pain. “My heart is still with Tamil Nadu,” he said.His first-class record is creditable. In 49 matches, Karthick has 2942 runs at 42.02 with eight hundreds. Karthick believed a batsman had to evolve. He now has a “forward press” without committing himself to the front foot. “The timing of the forward press has to be right. It has to be done when the bowler lands his back foot,” he said.Playing on greentops this season, Karthick found out that by taking an off-stump guard, he got the seamers to either drift down leg-side or provide him width.And he is always learning. For technical and mental inputs, he is constantly in touch with J.R. Madanagopal, S. Sriram and video analyst Prasanna. And Basu is Karthick’s fitness guru. Karthick is at home away from home.