http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/At-Davos-Naidu-to-promote-State-as-investment-destination/article14006867.ece

Close on the heels of the successful Partnership Summit organised in Andhra Pradesh, its Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu will be leading a high-level delegation to participate in the World Economic Forum’s 46th annual meeting at Davos, Switzerland, from January 20 to 23.Mr. Naidu is the only Chief Minister and one of the three key delegates from the country who will participate in the summit. The other two dignitaries are Union Finance Minister Arun Jaitley and Reserve Bank of India Governor Raghuram Rajan.The World Economic Forum invited Mr. Naidu as a special guest to the WEF meeting.Enthused by the good response to the CII-organised Partnership Summit recently in Visakhapatnam, the State government under the leadership of Mr. Naidu is keen to capitalise as well as leverage AP’s brand image acquired during the event in Vizag for the Davos meet.Giving the details of the Chief Minister’s Davos visit, Parakala Prabhakar, Advisor, Communications, Government of AP, said here on Monday that Mr. Naidu would project the State as the best investment destination before the heads of the countries and CEOs and share with them the State’s initiatives and achievements in agriculture, allied sectors, water resources, technology and health.About 2,000 to 2,500 delegates from various countries comprising business heads, IT, government and political representatives would participate in the three-day WEF meet with the theme ‘Mastering the Fourth Industrial Revolution.’ Mr. Naidu will be attending the theme event along with ministers of other countries and CEOs.Focus on industrial revolutionThe Fourth Industrial Revolution refers to the fusion of technologies across physical, digital and biological worlds which is creating entirely new capabilities and dramatic impacts on political, social and economic systems and people’s lives, he said.The summit would deliberate on how the world and its people could benefit from this revolution while addressing the challenges.Mr. Naidu would take part in the session on the following topics: Steering committee meeting - Future of Urban Development Services; A new climate for doing business; India and the World; Industry Governor’s Policy Meeting for Infra and Urban Development; A new vision for Agriculture- Advancing the Action Agenda; Transformation Meeting- Energy Demand Reinvented and Future of Manufacturing.Mr. Naidu would also hold bilateral meetings with industrialists, businessmen and experts from experts. He would hold meetings with delegates from Nestle, Johnson Controls, Trina Solar, Siemens and McKinsey.