http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/At-last-night-watchmen-at-boys%E2%80%99-hostels/article14017573.ece

Thirty five years after they were established, backward class hostels for higher primary and high school boys (in the age group of 11-18) will get security guards and night watchmen, who will stay on the campus. Till now, the facility was provided only to girls’ hostels.During a visit to the hostel in Wadagon–Deshmukh village in Aurad taluk last month, the younger lot said they were afraid at night, as they were on their own. The warden and attendant all go home by evening. The part-time cook stays only for three hours.Interestingly, department rules do not mandate that the warden or any other employee stays in the hostel round the clock.In 2013, the Backward Classes Department started deputing night watchmen in boys’ hostels. Each watchman was given a monthly salary of Rs. 3,000. However, their services were discontinued after the Finance Department refused to whet the initiative as the post of night watchman was not approved by the department’s structure and their salary was not sanctioned in the budget.“A basic mistake was committed by some officials, who thought that only girls needed protection at night. This anomaly is being corrected now,” a senior official said. “Now, the department is being revamped and staffing patterns are being revised. We are creating the post of night watchman. Each hostel has an average of five employees, including a warden, cook, assistant, attendants and sweepers. Staff strength increases with the number of students. The new move would ensure that at least one adult male stays at the hostel at night in smaller hostels, and two in bigger hostels.Minister for Social Welfare H. Anjaneya said the government’s decision is based on two principles.For us, the safety of boys is as important as girls. Secondly, we are as concerned about younger students as we are about older boys who are in high schools or colleges. Watchmen should join the hostels in one month.Total no. of hostel students today 59,030 (boys 50,570; girls 8,460)No. of hostels 1,145Boys’ hostels 979Girls’ hostels 166