http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/At-the-core-of-a-kriti/article14001415.ece

In a lec-dem by Pantula Rama and M.S.N. Murthy on Rasanubhava at this sabha, Murthy analysed the structure of kritis. He sang Tyagaraja’s ‘Samsarulaitenemayya’ (Saveri) and pointed out that Tyagaraja follows a ‘ta ta ta jhem’ structure throughout the kriti. He uses this tricky structure to balance two contrasting sentiments he is talking about- divinity and worldly pulls.Murthy demonstrated the scope for creativity in good structures like Dikshitar’s ‘Sri Subrahmanyaya Namaste,’ where one can do a pallavi kind of exposition and Murthy demonstrated how one can do a trisram.He spoke of distortions that have crept in over the years in kriti renditions. In Tyagaraja’s ‘Dorakuna’ (Bilahari), for example, the second line of the anupallavi is sung as ‘Bhoosura Varulakaina, Suralakaina.’ But dwitiakshara prasa is missing here, with the second letters in the first and second lines not rhyming. Murthy says the two phrases ‘Bhusuravarulakaina’ and ‘Suralakaina’ got interchanged, and that the proper way to sing would be ‘Suralakaina, Bhusuravarulakaina.’Bhadrachala Ramadas’ ‘Ramajogi’ (Khamas) is usually sung in irandu kalai , with kaal idam and mukkaal idam . Murthy demonstrated how trisram is more appropriate for the structure of the song.Tyagaraja’s ‘Nagumomu’ (Madhyamavati) is usually sung in chaturasram, Adi talam. Murthy sang the entire composition in khandam and showed how in this case, the sahityam goes naturally with the beat. Pantula Rama demonstrated how balance of emotions is achieved through sthayi-selection of octave in which a particular phrase is sung. For example, Dikshitar, in his ‘Hiranmayeem’ (Lalitha), uses the same note - ‘daivata’ - to address Goddess Lakshmi and also to refer to those without moral rectitude. He uses the jiva swaras ‘gandhara’ and ‘madhyama’ in middle octave, to glorify Lakshmi, and uses madhyama - in a lower octave, to refer to Heenamanava - evil people.A classic example of octave use is seen in ‘Ksheerasagara Sayana.’ In the climax ‘Taaraka Naama,’ we see brilliant use of madhyama and gandhara of Devagandhari. It gives scope to musicians to explore the feeling expressed by Tyagaraja, according to their voice culture. One can even go to ati tara shadja to show the ecstasy of reciting ‘Taaraka Nama.’ In Syama Sastri’s vilamba kala kriti ‘Brovavamma,’ there is a sudden quickening when one gets to the word birana (hurry), to capture the impatience of the composer, who wants the Goddess to hurry.In ‘Rara Raghuveera,’ Tyagaraja uses notes aptly to mellow down Atana, which is usually used to express veera rasa. While Saranga is used in ‘Emi Dova’ to describe the battle between Rama and Ravana, ‘Neevaada Ne Gana,’ also in Saranga, is in a beseeching tone. Srutiranjani is beautifully used in Tyagaraja’s ‘Edaari Sancharintura,’ to capture his dilemma - should he follow Advaita (monism) or Dvaita (dualism)? There are different types of tanam based on the characteristic gait of animals and birds. In ‘Entharo Mahanubhavulu,’ in the second charanam, one can see the use of markata (monkey) tanam, to remind us of the sequence of events in the forest, where Rama befriended the monkeys. This charanam is evocative of the restlessness of monkeys. In Koteeswara Iyer’s ‘Va Velava,’ in Tanaroopi, the music and words suggest the prancing of a peacock.The lec-dem concluded with the duo singing Bhadrachala Ramadas’ ‘Darisanamaayenu,’ set to tune by Murthy in Nadanamakriya, a raga used for melancholic strains. But what the duo sang was in a celebratory, vibrant mood, for now Ramadas has had darshan of Rama. The lec-dem showed that when sahityam and sangeetham walk hand in hand, the result is music of the highest order.