http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/At-50-One-Hundred-Years%E2%80%A6-continues-to-thrill/article13991399.ece

It’s like good wine that has aged well.Time has not taken the shine off Colombian Gabriel Garcia Marquez’s celebrated classic, One Hundred Years of Solitude .In the 50th year of its publication, originally in Spanish, the phantasmagorical fictional work, rendered in Malayalam in 1984, has had a deep and lasting relationship with Malayali readers as well.DC Books, which brought out the work in Malayalam, says it has so far sold about 50,000 copies and the number is growing. “In the first year of its publication in Malayalam [translated by Dr S. Velayudhan], it sold about 5,000 copies in two editions. On an average, at least 1,200 copies were sold in each successive year. But there was a sudden spike in sales, probably spurred by Marquez’s death, in 2014 when 7,000 copies moved off the shelf in no time. Last year, the novel sold about 5,000 copies,” said A.V. Sreekumar, manager (publications) at DC Books.With its demand soaring by the day, they are now trying to purchase rights for publishing it in the eBook format.Among Marquez’s works, Malayalis have been in love with Love in the Time of Cholera than any other, but it was One Hundred Years… that got them smitten, what with its narrative style resembling the oral narratives passed down the generations and O.V. Vijayan’s Malayalam classic Khasakinte Ithihasam [The Legends of Khasak] sweeping the 1960s and 70s readers off their feet with its incredible myths and legends in a fictional village.“Imaginative Malayalis were quick to draw parallels between Khasak and Marquez’s Macondo. The power of his narration and the appeal of such a fantastic locale are things that continue to hold sway over the readers. I don’t see the work’s popularity diminishing in the near future,” maintained award-winning translator N. Moosakutty.“Umpteen number of Malayali readers would have read the work in English, but even now, we have people coming to the library looking for the translation,” said Priya Peter, joint librarian at Ernakulam Public Library.Latin America has a rich body of literature with stalwarts like Julio Cortazar, Carlos Fuentes and Mario Vargas Llosa, who were part of the ‘boom’ along with Marquez. “However, some of them like Llosa [also popular among Keralites] are tough to read. What worked to Marquez’s advantage in India was that his story telling resembled the Oriental type of narration, full with myths, legends and fantasy which he popularised through the narrative device of ‘magic realism’,” said novelist Sethu. “We have things akin to the grandmother’s lies that have been retold by Marquez. Nothing short of captivating and alluring they were.”