http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/society/At-home-in-eat-street/article13986411.ece

What do you do when you’re alone in a new city? You eat out. Where do you start when you know not a word of the local language? The streets.It’s exciting enough to stroll by unfamiliar streets; but more so to discover a delicious dish whose name you cannot pronounce. And so, the first thing I do when I have an entire evening for myself in Ahmedabad is head to Law Garden, a street food and handicrafts haven.As the sun sets over the Sabarmati on a cold December evening, a rickety auto deposits me at the first of the glittering stalls selling chaniya cholis (embroidered long skirts and blouses) at the night market. A long row of shops stretches along the pavement as far as the eye can see. A few blocks away stands a cart, shrouded in a cloud of smoke. It parts to reveal a hillock of sweet potatoes piled one on top of the other. The seller utters not a word to his customers, who wait patiently, watching him peel and slice the potatoes and sprinkle chaat masala on the piping hot cubes. It seems like an orchestrated dance movement that he performs in a trance — peel, chop, sprinkle; peel, chop, sprinkle. For just Rs.10, I get a plateful of warm potato heaven.I wolf it all down, when I’m distracted by more food carts parked along the other side of the road. What’s fascinating about Ahmedabad’s street food is the carts they are sold in. Each is different — a four-wheeled cart with colourful masala powders in overused plastic containers, one with a tilted brass pot bubbling with peas masala, and another that resembles a hand-drawn ice-cream cart sporting bright-red Gujarati words. I stop by one that looks like it has a yellow parachute attached to it. A closer look shows a puffed plastic sack of gold fingers (tubular fries).“Batata hudda,” announces the lanky seller, and then reveals his own name which gets dissolved in his singsong voice and the string of Gujarati words that follow. “Naam kya hai?” I ask, in my limited Hindi vocabulary. “Batata hudda,” he repeats, a tad annoyed and sets out to make me a plate. The dish, a fiery concoction of potatoes and black channa cooked in a tamarind-based gravy, is perfect for the weather. Each plate comes with about five fingers of fries — a spoonful of the batata, a quick bite of the crunchy fries — that’s the perfect way to eat it.His neighbour sells small circles of kulcha with peas sabji. The soft-as-a-cloud kulcha, although salt-less, is smothered in butter and drizzled with coriander leaves. The sabji is too spicy. But I don’t complain — the kulcha more than makes up for it.Two kulchas down and I decide to call it a day. But that’s when I see him, an old man with what looks like a shoulder-high weighing scale.He walks balancing the centre of the arrangement on his shoulder. Suspended on either ends are aluminium plates with flattened chickpeas, onions, tomatoes and paper cones. He smiles in response to all my questions — What is this called? What is your name? How old are you? He motions for me to try what he has to offer — chana zor garam.He gathers a handful of chickpea flakes, throws in some onions, tomatoes and chaat masala, and rolls the lot in a paper cone and hands it to me. The simple and earthy flavours make me forget that I’m hundreds of kilometres from familiarity. I’ve not eaten anything like it in my part of India; but it tastes like home.