http://www.thehindu.com/sport/cricket/Australia-looks-for-a-clean-sweep/article14014449.ece

After three disappointing but not embarrassing defeats, India contrived to lose in sorry fashion in Canberra. Darren Lehmann called it an ‘un-losable’ game afterwards, and he wasn't wrong. “We got out of jail with that one,” the Australia coach said. “The challenge is now to finish five-zip.”While Australia’s objective is clear ahead of the fifth and final ODI of the VB Series at the Sydney Cricket Ground here on Saturday — a clean sweep — it will be harder for India to dust itself off and find motivation.Viral Kohli felt India had to forget about the first four matches. “We have one ODI and three T20s left. We’d like to win all four games. Look at the whole thing as a tour of eight games rather than two series separately,” he said.As good an idea as that may be, it is not easily put into practice. India’s bowling looked no better at the Manuka Oval than it previously had. Bhuvneshwar Kumar replaced Barinder Sran, but went for 69 runs from his eight overs. What India will do with him remains to be seen.Axar Patel has not played a single game so far and perhaps deserves a chance. Ajinkya Rahane, who split a webbing in his right hand in Canberra, is a doubt to feature. The team management has said, however, that he will travel to the ground and a decision will only be made thereafter.It rained non-stop in Sydney on Friday, washing out the Indian women’s team’s warm-up game at the Drummoyne Oval. Rain is again predicted for Saturday.The teams (from):India: M.S. Dhoni (capt.), Shikhar Dhawan, Rohit Sharma, Virat Kohli, Ajinkya Rahane, Manish Pandey, Gurkeerat Singh Mann, Ravindra Jadeja, R. Ashwin, Rishi Dhawan, Ishant Sharma, Umesh Yadav, Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Barinder Sran, and Axar Patel.Australia: Steve Smith (capt.), Aaron Finch, David Warner, George Bailey, Glenn Maxwell, Mitchell Marsh, Matthew Wade, James Faulkner, John Hastings, Scott Boland, Kane Richardson, Nathan Lyon, and Shaun Marsh.Umpires: Richard Kettleborough and Paul Wilson.TV umpire: John Ward.Match referee: Jeff Crowe.Start of play: 8:50 a.m. IST.