http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/society/Auto-Adventures/article13986340.ece

Many looked on flabbergasted as a pageant of colourfully painted autorickshaws chugged into Hotel Hycinth. And while autorickshaws are a common sight, what made jaws drop was that they were driven by foreigners and expertly too.Although exhausted after travelling for 10 days, the members of Indian Autorickshaw Challenge – Classic Run soon got busy posing for photographs as their circuitous drive from Chennai to Thiruvananthapuram came to an end. Their journey, which started on December 28, took them through places such as Puducherry, Madurai and Kanyakumari and had them cover close to 940 kilometres in an autorickshaw.An annual event, the Indian Autorickshaw Challenge – Classic is a rally where a bunch of teams, each with their own autorickshaws, go on a pre-arranged route, duelling for fun along the way.This year, 16 teams participated in the run. The participants were from all over the world: Australia, Canada, the United States, South Africa…But why in an autorickshaw? “Well, I feel it’s an extraordinary way to experience India and see the Indian countryside. The trip is not for the faint-hearted though. The ride is for individuals who want to ‘participate’ in their vacation rather than simply ‘witness’ it,” says Aravind Bremanandam, the chief organiser of the event.And Mike Gillick who is in the Challenge with his sons, Josh and Jeremy agrees. “Driving through bumpy country roads and villages, you see and do things you’d never experience in an organised tour,” he says.The challenge and the excitement of the Autorickshaw challenge, according to Aravind, is that something could always go wrong. “A late start, a flat tyre, traffic snarls… But as a well seasoned adventurer knows, this is all part of the fun and what makes the trip worth it.”Say Alberto Sotelo and his teammates, Kate Parker and Nicole Feiber: “All of us have stories of adventures and misadventures to tell our family and friends when we return home. From near death experiences to complete strangers waving and cheering us on.”While most would consider getting lost in a foreign land, frightening, for this motley group, getting lost was part of the adventure. From vehicles breaking down in the middle of nowhere to finding themselves lost in a village that is caught in time, the group said it was the warm smiles and welcomes that kept them going on the journey of discovering the land.Sarah Prudhomme and her fiancé, Mike Duffield, say that the people were their maps whenever they were lost. “Once when we were lost, a woman invited us home and prepared us tea using fresh herbs from her garden. She then followed us and made sure we took the right road to reach our destination. Another time, an autorickshaw driver pushed our broken down vehicle with his leg as he expertly navigated through the crazy traffic,” says Sarah.The more rural the village, the shyer the people are, observes Rob Martin. “However, no matter how small the village, the villagers were all familiar with selfies and would pose gladly with us,” laughs Rob’s teammate Paul Luiz.With the end of the trip, the participants say that they will miss the camaraderie shared. “The unparalleled level of fun and the sense of achievement have made the journey an experience of a lifetime. We will definitely stay in touch; we didn’t just travel together, we took a journey together,” say Kathleen Evans and Sally Pederson.