http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Ayacut-can-be-doubled-by-preventing-breaches-to-tanks-says-expert/article14005151.ece

Mission Kakatiya, the massive programme being implemented by the Telangana government, will prove cost-effective and can double the ayacut if the government also pays attention to prevent breaches to tanks, says T. Hanumantha Rao, former Engineer-in-Chief, United Nations (OPS) Consultant.Mr. Rao, who prepared a manual for construction of tanks way back in 1986 for the combined Andhra Pradesh, that is followed by several States, now suggests that by being judicious about de-silting of tanks, resources could also be diverted for strengthening the tank bunds and restoring them to design standards.In the second phase of the mission in 2016, design restoration of tanks and improvements should be given prominence with the motto of zero tolerance to breaches by eliminating breaches to minor irrigation tanks as in the case of medium irrigation tanks.“If this is not done under Mission Kakatiya with huge funds under its disposal, it may never happen,” he maintains.And this, he avers, can be done by simple design interventions (See the info box). The ayacut under the tanks can be doubled by one simple arrangement of providing sluice with ‘screw gearing’ shutter to regulate the flow of water through the sluice into tank ayacut canal.Now the sluice gate is closed manually with stones, clay, grass etc., or using a wooden plug which do not properly regulate flow of water. The screw gearing shutter arrangement just costs about Rs.6 lakh, he adds.Making an observation, Mr. Rao, who as advisor to ICRISAT on tank irrigation, and worked in 22 countries on behalf of the World Bank and the UN, also says that instead of government spending money on de-silting of dead storage area of a tank (that is anyway done by farmers voluntarily), it should be done in the live storage area.The reason being more water stored in the live storage area will spread over larger area - four to six times bigger than the dead storage area. Thus, deep percolation in the large extent of area will also be several times more.Another important aspect, he points out, when live storage increases, more water will go through sluice and irrigate bigger area as well as facilitating more ground water recharge.Interestingly, 70 per cent of minor irrigation tanks are not getting filled up even during good rainfall year and in such cases, there is no point in de-silting for increasing live storage capacity.The amount thus saved on such de-silting could be used for better purposes. This principle holds good in all districts of Telangana and Rayalaseema.Mission Kakatiya would yield better results when government would identify the 30 per cent tanks which are filled in a good rainfall year in every district and de-silt them in the live-storage area, he says.Next to de-silting, strengthening of the tank bunds and conforming to the design standards should be done to prevent breaches to hundreds of tanks every year, he emphasises. While tank breaches happen whenever there are good rains, in 2015, though it was a drought year, many tanks in Warangal and Khammam, covered under Kakatiya mission, breached during early kharif season. However no medium irrigation tank breached because of better design.The goal should be not even one minor irrigation tank should get breached. Before Kakatiya Mission, government used to spend funds for closing the breaches but not for improving the bunds. Similar is the situation in Andhra Pradesh where hundreds of tanks breached in Chittoor, Nellore and Kadapa districts.Before launching Kakatiya Mission, 1,700 tanks had breached. In 2015, tanks in Warangal and Khammam, which were de-silted, breached and the government should investigate why it happened and take necessary action so that similar breaches do not occur, he advises.