http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/Ayaz-Sultan%E2%80%99s-friends-statements-to-be-corroborated-with-recruiter/article14022056.ece

Following the arrest of alleged Islamic State recruiter Rizwan Ali Nawazuddin from Uttar Pradesh, the Maharashtra Anti Terrorism Squad (ATS) will be cross-checking statements given by two of Malwani youth Ayaz Sultan’s friends who had also gone missing, but later returned on their own. Sultan, 23, had gone missing in October last year and is currently believed to be with the IS module in Kabul, Afghanistan.On Saturday, the ATS had arrested Nawazuddin, a UP native, who is alleged to have recruited Sultan and helped him join the IS. Sultan’s three friends, Noor Mohammed, Wajid Sheikh and Mohsin Sheikh had also gone missing last year.While Noor and Wajid later returned and claimed that they had gone into hiding due to the attention that Sultan’s disappearance had attracted, Mohsin is still missing. “Nawazuddin was in touch not only with Sultan, but also with Noor, Wajid and Mohsin. While his interactions were largely with Sultan, he has also met the other three in person at least once. With his arrest, we can now cross-check the claims that Noor and Wajid made during questioning,” said a source.The fact that Nawazuddin met the other three youth in person has already raised questions about their statements, as they had claimed that Sultan had tried to brainwash them into coming with him to join the IS, but that they backed out.“We are first interrogating Nawazuddin to build a detailed picture of his interaction with them. We may call Noor and Wajid for questioning again. Once we have done this, we may confront them with the facts gleaned from Nawazuddin’s interrogation,” an officer said.Interrogation so far has indicated that Nawazuddin was the number two recruiter in the hierarchy of the ‘Junood-ul-Khalifa-e-Hind’, the Army of the Caliph of India, and was in direct touch with Mumbra native Mudabbir Sheikh, the alleged ‘Amir’ or chief of the module. Nawazuddin’s primary role was to recruit young men for the ‘cause’ and facilitate their journey to IS modules. Apart from Sultan and Mudabbir, Nawazuddin was also in touch with several of the other accused arrested in a nationwide sweep by the ATS and the National Investigation Agency using social media and internet calling facility, officials said.