http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Visakhapatnam/B2B-meet-to-focus-on-investment-opportunities-in-Jharkhand/article13982520.ece

Encouraged by ranking third by the World Bank in ease of doing business in India after Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh, the Jharkhand government held a B2B meeting in the city for the first time on Monday to showcase various opportunities for investment in the State formed after bifurcation of Bihar 15 years ago.The mineral rich State has already signed MoUs for establishment of various industries with an investment of Rs.58,000 crore. A Special Economic Zone has been sanctioned in 90 acres at Adityapur near Jamshedpur to encourage automobile and spare part units. Tata Motors and several ancillary units are located in the area.Industrial Extension Officer of Jharkhand Dilip Kumar Sinha told The Hindu on Monday that their intention was to focus various investment opportunities in Jharkhand through B2B meetings.The meeting was held at India International Mega Trade Fair being organised by Bengal Chamber of Commerce and Industry and Vizagapatam Chamber of Commerce & Industry at AU Engineering College Grounds. The Jharkhand Government after getting second steel plant at Patratu after a gap of 50 years has decided to covert the State into a steel hub. “We want to promote Jharkhand as Steel Hub State as the USP,” Mr. Sinha said.At present, TISCO and Jindal Power and Steel have a total production of 12 to 15 million tonne. The government wants to increase it to 25 million tonne by 2017. Jharkhand is also the largest producer of tasar. It has total production of eight lakh tonnes. The government recently received best organic silk producer award “We have lot of opportunities for investment in not only minerals like mica, dolomite, coal, iron ore but also in agriculture, horticulture and dairy development,” he said.The State unveiled separate policies for food processing and feed processing. In peas production Jharkhand is second in India and sixth in tomato yield. Mr. Sinha said the government had also created a land bank and with 24x7 power supply, single window clearance, e-governance at all level and several tax concessions, they would soon emerge as the most advanced industrial State.