http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Back-for-the-throne/article13997429.ece

After the Chevrolet Trailblazer, another American has risen to challenge the Toyota Fortuner. This time, it’s the second-generation Ford Endeavour. The new and loaded SUV has nothing in common with its predecessor, save for the name and a ladder-frame chassis. Question is, can it win back its crown in affordable-big-SUV segment that the first-generation Endeavour originally gave birth to? Let’s take the two new Endeavours, the 2.2-litre, 4x2 and 3.2-litre, 4x4 versions for a little spin and find out.This seven-seat SUV is visually daunting. To give things perspective, the bonnet literally sits five feet off the ground, and its big, wide, trapezoidal chrome grille stares you right in the face. As gargantuan as the Endeavour is, its sculpted bonnet, the Mustang-ish headlights and a steeply raked windscreen give it a modern air. The vents on the front-fender are another stand-out feature on the SUV’s never-ending side profile. The huge wheel arches though, make even the 18-inch tyres seem puny. At the rear, a chrome bar runs across the electrically powered tailgate. The spare-wheel, instead of being boot-mounted, has been has been tucked away under the vehicle. The absence of a tail-mounted-wheel aids rear visibility, useful when backing the car up.Under the hood, you get the choice of a 2.2-litre four-cylinder or a 3.2-litre five-cylinder diesel; the bigger engine comes with a six-speed automatic transmission and AWD as standard, while the 2.2-litre variants come married to either a six-speed automatic transmission or a six-speed manual unit, with AWD as optional.Price Range: Ex-showroom price: Rs 24-30 lakh (estimated, ex-showroom, Delhi) Engine Fuel: Diesel Installation: Front, transverse Type 5 cyls, 3198cc / 4 cyls 2198cc Power: 197bhp at 3000rpm/ 158bhp at 3200rpm Torque: 47.92kgm at 1750-2500rpm / 38.24kgm at 1600- 2500rpm Transmission Gearbox: 6-speed auto / 6-speed auto, 6-speed manual Dimensions Length: 4893mm; Width: 1862mm; Height: 1836mm; Wheelbase: 2850mm Chassis & Body Construction: Four-door SUV, ladder frame Weight: 2357-2495kg (estimated) Interiors of the new car are a huge step from the last Endeavour. The cabin features elegant use of leather, chrome and faux metal. The double-stitched leather covering the dash, the good-to-hold steering wheel, and the integrated touchscreen elevate the look of the cabin. The instrument cluster has a big speedometer in the centre flanked by twin screens which display a digital tachometer, driving modes and many more functions. The customisable cabin lighting, supple leather seats and chrome-ringed cup holders lift the overall ambience inside. On the Titanium trim, you get the voice-command controlled SYNC 2 infotainment system that provides Bluetooth connectivity and streaming. There’s plenty of space for daily items and knick-knacks. This being an off-roader, there are grab handles all over. On the downside, the touchscreen interface isn’t the smoothest, and you will find lower quality plastics in some places.An area where the interiors score is on comfort and space. The driver’s seat provides ample bolstering, and is easy to find a comfortable driving position in, irrespective of your size, thanks to its electrical adjustments. Passengers in the middle row will never find a reason to complain, given the abundance of legroom and headroom. Even the third row has a nice, big bench with a reclining backrest. However, poor accessibility, the low-set seat, and the knees-up position makes it suited for short rides at best. The third row of seats though can be folded down flat with the touch of a button, making way for more luggage space. Nifty!On the drive front, this two-tonne-plus behemoth is surprisingly easy to manoeuvre, even in heavy traffic. The 2.2-litre engine, producing 158bhp and 38kgm of torque, is a step down on power compared to the 3.2-litre unit that delivers 197bhp, 48kgm. However, the difference between the two engines isn’t really noticeable in everyday driving. In fact, the smaller motor feels more relaxed and light on its feet at city speeds.The bigger engine, though, slower to pick up speed but is deceptively quick, and provides a lot more bite. If you keep the right foot pinned, the car sprints to 100kph from standstill in 11.33 sec, making the Endeavour faster than the Fortuner, albeit slower than the Trailblazer. But rev the 3.2 hard, and the engine begins to sound coarse. To counter this, the Endeavour has another trick up its sleeve. It’s called noise cancellation. This tech plays the ambient noises in reverse through the car’s speakers to cancel ambient disturbances, which in turn, helps keep engine noises out of the cabin to a great extent. The strong engines are however let down by a laggard automatic gearbox. The down-shifts feels slow, though the tiptronic (manual) mode helps exploit the engine’s capabilities.Agility is really exceptional for such a big, ladder-frame SUV. The light, direct and even confidence inspiring electric steering makes flicking the Endeavour around turns quick, and clean. The strong frame and suspension take up pretty much anything our roads can throw at them, and let little of the bumps and ruts filter into the cabin.Four-wheel-drive versions get a high-tech active transfer case and a Range Rover-like Terrain Management System, all of which allows the car to flatten boulders and clamber over all sorts of terrain, without compromising on comfort. And the 800mm water wading depth should certainly help during Indian monsoons. The Endeavour also comes equipped with Curve Control, Roll-Stability Control, Blind-Spot warning, lane departure warning and seven airbags. So safety shouldn’t be an issue either.It is clear that the new Endeavour is here to get back its throne. It is the most modern SUV of its lot, has the most luxurious interiors and is a joy to drive, both at low and at high speeds. Slated for launch on 20th January, 2016, the Endeavour is expected to be priced from the Rs 24-lakh mark for the 2.2 litre 4x2 manual Trend variant, to about Rs 30 lakh for the top-end 3.2-litre 4x4 automatic Titanium. Its unique blend of performance, luxury and practicality makes this SUV completely worth waiting for. If you were looking for the pick of the lot, it would have to be the 2.2-litre variants for their sheer usability in the city, and the fact that they will be cheaper and more frugal to run than the bigger-engined car.