http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/Back-to-basics-for-NDMC-smart-city/article14025380.ece

Before the free WiFi, automated parking lots and other high-tech projects, the New Delhi Municipal Council will be focussing on improving basic services, as it embarks on its mission to become a ‘Smart City’.On Thursday, the NDMC area was among the 20 cities selected for the Union Urban Development Ministry’s Smart City Challenge, which will help it fund some of the infrastructure projects it proposed in its application.Water, electricity, health and education – all basic services – will be the first priorities for the NDMC as it implements its Rs.1,897.27-crore project. According to the NDMC proposal, Rs.500 crore of the capital expenditure will come from the Smart City grants, Rs.510.84 crore from centrally sponsored schemes and Rs.281.69 crore from private-public partnership. The remaining Rs.604.74 crore will be from the NDMC’s own sources. “Though we will start work on all our proposals simultaneously, 24x7 water supply, a smart power grid and improving health care and education will be our top goals,” said NDMC chairperson Naresh Kumar.As per the NDMC plan, which was submitted to the Urban Development Ministry in December 2015 after extensive public consultations, the aim will be to supply water throughout the day. An automated supply system, web-based billing system, dual pipes to supply grey water and mini sewage treatment plants for waste water management would be set up.While the NDMC is already in the process of upgrading its power grid, it plans to put in place integrated distribution management and outage management systems. To make sure consumers pay the right amount, bill and energy audits would be done. Focussing on clean energy, a 40 megawatt solar power plant will be in place by 2020.Keeping with the ‘green’ theme, the NDMC proposes to have electric-powered public transport for last-mile connectivity. It also plans an electric vehicle charging ports at each parking bay. With the city’s business and government hubs located in Lutyens’ Delhi, parking is a major concern for the NDMC. A smart parking system, along with an app that enables car-pooling and gives information on cycling tracks, traffic conditions and air quality, will be launched. Bus stops that have interactive information screens and vending machines are also in the proposal.The inner circle of Connaught Place would be made pedestrian-only, with visitors being given a ‘park and ride’ facility. For its schools, the NDMC has planned e-learning solutions as well as a mentoring programme for students. A ‘smart health’ plan that integrates all public medical facilities via a cloud-based system will be a priority for the Council. Patients will be able to access a network of volunteer doctors through a virtual medical service. After getting the nod from the Urban Development Ministry, the NDMC will now be floating tenders for each project.“We will rope in agencies to implement all the projects in our proposal soon,” said Mr. Kumar. The five-year mission to transform the NDMC area into a ‘smart city’ begins now.