http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Bahuroopi-is-back-to-treat-theatre-connoisseurs/article13989583.ece

Bahuroopi, the national theatre festival hosted by theatre repertory Rangayana, will be held in the city from January 14 to 20. The theme this year is ‘expression’.The most-awaited theatre festival will unfold on January 14 at 5.30 p.m. with noted theatre repertory M.K. Raina from New Delhi inaugurating the seven-day theatre extravaganza.The highlight of this year’s festival is the staging of Julius Caesar by a 45-member troupe of Rangayana, directed by writer and theatre personality G.K. Govinda Rao.Posters releasedThe posters of the theatre festival were released at Rangayana here on Friday. Prof. Rao, Rangayana director H. Janardhan (Janni) and deputy director Bhavikatti were present.The Rangayana director later told The Hindu that 11 plays will be staged at Vanaranga, Bhoomigeetha and Kalamandira. Theatre groups from Assam, Madhya Pradesh and New Delhi will also stage productions. Activist Yogendra Yadav will inaugurate and address a two-day national seminar on expression on January 16.Over ten artists will camp in Rangayana from January 13 to 16 for an art workshop which focuses on the subject of freedom of expression. The art works will be displayed subsequently.In schoolsThis year, folk troupes and artistes of street plays will perform in schools and colleges besides at the Kindarijogi Statue, adjacent to Rangayana, on all days of the theatre festival, Mr. Janardhan said.Bhoomigeetha will host theatre shows from 3.30 p.m. to 5 p.m. and tickets at the hall costs Rs. 30 per head. Kalamandira, which was recently renovated and can accommodate a large audience, will host plays daily from 7 p.m. onwards. Tickets at this venue cost Rs. 40 per person.Vanaranga, the open air theatre that hosts special theatre productions, will be screening the play Julius Caesar on January 15 at 7 p.m., he informed.Rangayana to host the most-awaited national festival on its campus from January 14 to 20; this year’s theme is Expression