http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Balayya-watches-Dictator-with-fans/article14001273.ece

Actor and Hindupur legislator Nandamuri Balakrishna sprang a surprise on his fans in the temple city, when he arrived at the Group Theatres complex where his latest blockbuster Dictator was screened on Thursday.Balayya, as he is fondly called by his fans, reached the city on Wednesday evening to participate in Sankranthi festivities at his brother-in-law and Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu’s native village Naravaripalle. Taking some time off his busy schedule to watch the movie in a theatre, apparently to gauge the crowd response, he arrived with others for the morning show.The crowd turned boisterous on seeing their favourite star descend in front of their eyes and their joy knew no bounds.All roads leading to the cinema hall were packed with his fans, who thronged to catch a glimpse of their favourite actor. Police had a tough time controlling the crowd, even as his frenzied fans started mobbing their favourite star.Later, speaking to the media, Mr. Balakrishna conveyed festive greetings to people in his own inimitable style and remarked that his latest movie would appeal to all sections of audience. He even delivered a dialogue snippet from the movie eliciting hoots and cackles from the crowd.Disappointed fanscry foulStaff Reporter writes from Srikakulam: People are being forced to buy tickets in black-market in majority of theatres of Srikakulam district, thanks to lack of supervision over the managements which had reportedly blocked majority of the tickets.It is alleged that each balcony ticket was sold between Rs. 250 and Rs. 400 for movies like Nannaku Premato and Dictator . Black marketing is likely on Sankranti day, too, with the release of Soggade Chinni Nayana on Friday.Meanwhile, fans of NTR and Balakrishna have requested police and Revenue officials to take stern action against theatre managements that failed to sell tickets through counters. The managements argued that tickets had been booked online, and that they could not be blamed for it.