http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/Balayya-has-a-fruitful-meet-with-KCR/article14006839.ece

Actor Nandamuri Balakrishna, who is also the chairman of the trust that runs Basavatarakam Indo-American Caner Hospital & Research Institute, met Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao here on Monday, and requested him to regularise some structures, constructed on the hospital campus for the facility of patients, under the Building Regularisation Scheme (BRS).Responding positively to Mr. Balakrishna’s request, Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao assured that the State government would act charitably towards the hospital that has been offering treatment to cancer patients with a motto on service.He suggested the trust that is managing the hospital to take care about facilities for attendants accompanying the patients along with medical services.The Chief Minister was particular about provision of night shelters, toilets and changing rooms for the benefit of attendants of patients and stating that the government too would extend assistance to the hospital management in that regard.Stressing the need for developing night shelters around all hospitals in the city for benefit of attendants of patients taking treatment, he said the government too would arrange such facilities and a meeting would be conducted soon with the managements of all hospitals in the city.Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao noted that the government had already provided night shelter facilities at several hospitals along with Basavatarakam Cancer Hospital and more such facilities would come up at all hospitals in the coming days.He, however, sought cooperation from the hospital managements for such an endeavour.Invited to watch DictatorEarlier, Mr. Balakrishna explained to the Chief Minister about the services being extended by the cancer hospital.Meanwhile, Mr. Balakrishna, who also happens to be a TDP legislator from Hindupur in Andhra Pradesh, invited Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao for screening of his latest release ‘ Dictator ’.The actor said it was his 99{+t}{+h}film and was being received well by the audience.On Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao’s enquiry about the actor’s 100{+t}{+h}film, Mr. Balakrishna explained that it would be a sequel to his previous film Adithya 369.He also explained that he would be introducing his son Mokshagna to the silver screen soon. During their discussion on films, Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao recollected that he would mostly watch NTR and ANR films when he was young. Minister Jupally Krishna Rao, MP B. Vinod Kumar, actor and TRS legislator from Andole P. Babu Mohan, CEO of the hospital R.P. Singh and others were present on the occasion.