http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Ballari-ZP-members-seek-early-completion-of-water-projects/article13989436.ece

Members of the Ballari Zilla Panchayat, cutting across party lines, wanted all ongoing drinking water projects to be completed expeditiously to avoid facing drinking water crisis during the ensuing summer.They were participating in an emergency general body meeting here on Thursday, which was, perhaps, the last one with their five-year term coming to an end this month. B. Anita, panchayat president, was in the chair.“Some of the drinking water projects, proposed long ago, were still under implementation. Every time the issue was raised in the general body meeting and also during the quarterly review meeting chaired by the district in-charge Minister, we are given stock reply that they would completed within three months. Now our term has come to an end and there has been hardly any progress made. At least now, with a young IAS officer holding the post of the Chief Executive Officer, we hope that the officials concerned will discharge their duties sincerely to complete the projects and supply drinking water to the people,” was the common refrain.When Gonal Rajashekar Gouda pointed out that people in Kudtini, Mincheri and Rupanagudi were starving due to inordinate delay on the part of the officials to set right the lacunae, Chief Executive Officer S.S. Nakul said that geo-membrane sheets had been laid and the project was ready for storing water.“Even if the projects are ready, people of these villages continue to suffer as water is not impounded as the canals had been closed,” Mr. Rajashekar Gouda said.In his reply, Mr. Nakul admitted that the selection of sites for impounding reservoirs in Kudtini and Mincheri were wrong and reiterated that steps had been taken to set right the lapses.“I have inspected the projects and they are now ready to be used. We are waiting for the canals to be reopened,” he said and added that he had instructed the officials to take steps to complete the projects by accelerating the pace of work.