http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/Balloon-scare-at-the-airport-%E2%80%98blown-out-of-proportion%E2%80%99/article14025388.ece

The scare created on Wednesday by a ‘weather’ balloon that was seen moving towards the Delhi airport has left even the officials of Meteorological Department surprised. The department floats two such balloons every day in Delhi to gather crucial atmospheric data.The suspicious balloon-like object had sent the police of Gurgaon and Delhi into a tizzy on Wednesday afternoon as it was seen a day after a similar flying object was shot down by the Indian Air Force over Barmer in Rajasthan after it had allegedly crossed the border to enter the Indian airspace. Eventually, it turned out to be a weather balloon of the Meteorological Department.“These balloons are released in the morning and evening everyday and all necessary precautions are taken. These go up to a height of 36 km in the stratosphere and pose no risk to either aircraft that are cruising or during landing and take-off,” said a senior official of the India Meteorological Department (IMD), New Delhi.Senior MeT officials, who are engaged in a two-day workshop, were taken aback when their innocuous weather balloon caused a stir in the Capital.“We don't know why it created so much panic. For people living in areas such as Aya Nagar, where someone reportedly spotted it, it is a common sight,” the official said.The hydrogen filled balloons have a diameter of 1 metre and carry meteorological sensors that send back weather data to the ground station. “The balloons carry an equipment called Radiosonde which relays back important Met data on temperature, humidity, atmospheric pressures etc. Also, we get data on weather variation at different levels as the balloon ascends,” he said.The balloons and the equipment they carry are mostly lost and not usually re-used. These balloons are mainly manufactured in China and the Met Department procures them through four to five different India-based vendors. Each of these balloons cost about Rs. 5,000 and these are released from 26 different ground stations across India, sources said.The weather balloon that was spotted moving from the Delhi airport towards Aya Nagar on Wednesday was red and white in colour and it took the Delhi Police about three hours to find out its source.In a similar incident last year, some weather balloons had created a stir at the Mumbai airport, resulting in the delay of two flights.