http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Bangladeshi-youths-to-begin-homeward-journey-today/article13982002.ece

After spending one-and-a-half years in a shanty, Sabin Hawladar and Saiful Hawladar, the two Bangladeshi youths sheltered at the Aluva West police station, will begin their journey back home on Tuesday.The youths, accompanied by a grade sub-inspector and a senior civil police officer, will board the Guwahati Express from Aluva at 9.30 p.m. and disembark at Howrah station in West Bengal on Thursday. They are scheduled to report before the Inspector General of the South Bengal Border Security Force in Kolkata on January 11, who, in turn, will hand the duo over to Bangladesh.“The documents permitting their travel to Bangladesh and a copy of the agreement between India and Bangladesh with regard to their transfer have been received from the Bangladesh High Commission’s office in Mumbai. The tickets were booked using the emergency quota of the Aluva Rural Police Superintendent. With the help of some local residents and voluntary organisations, we have also arranged new clothes and pocket money for them,” said L. Anil Kumar, Station House Officer.The release order came after the Bangladesh authorities completed verification of a Performa on them, sent by the Ernakulam rural police, in June last year. The Hindu had earlier reported about the plight of youths from Bagerhat district in Bangladesh. They had landed in police custody while picking rags for a living in North Paravur in July 2014. They had no papers to prove their nationality and remained in custody from last October, after a six-month jail term for illegal stay.After being released from custody, they were accommodated in a shanty in the backyard of the station and had been living at the mercy of officers at the police station here. Moved by their plight, Cyriac Joseph, acting chairperson of the National Human Rights Commission, visited the station recently and sought to take up their case with the Human Rights Commission in Bangladesh.