http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Banks-lend-a-helping-hand-to-make-villages-open-defecation-free/article14009152.ece

Banks have lent a helping hand to village residents in Kalaburagi district to do away with the practice of open defecation.Thanks to an initiative taken by the Kalaburgi Zilla Panchayat, banks have provided loans to construct toilets in houses.This also follows a direction of the Reserve Bank of India to banks to include funding for construction of individual toilets as priority lending.Open defecation is a common practice in almost all villages in the district. Till the zilla panchayat took up the issue at the district-level bankers meeting recently, the banks had not provided financial assistance to construct toilets.Chief Executive Officer of the Kalaburagi Zilla Panchayat Anirudh Sravan told The Hindu on Tuesday that the one of the major impediments faced by the residents of rural areas for taking up the construction of individual toilets was paucity of funds.“With banks opening their door before the rural poor, the scheme has picked up speed,” Mr. Sravan said. Initially, banks were reluctant to provide assistance to individuals to take up construction of toilets owing to the lack of guarantee of repayment of loans. “To overcome this, we told the banks to extend the loans through qualified self-help groups (SHG) which had a good track record of repaying loans,” Mr. Sravan said.Although the government extends an assistance of Rs. 12,000 to BPL families and Rs. 15,000 to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes to construct toilets, the amount is not released in time.Mr. Sravan said that the banks had extended more than Rs 1.73 crore as loans to 405 self-help groups that would benefit 2,970 households. Each of the beneficiary would be provided a loan of Rs. 14,000 in two instalments at different stages of construction.SubsidyMembers of the Panchashila and Navodaya, two SHGs in Kinni Sadak village in Kalaburagi taluk, were the first ones to complete the construction of 25 toilets with the assistance provided by the banks. Panchayat Development Officer of the Kurikota village Rachana Gowda said that the subsidy amount provided by the government for constructing the individual toilets had been released to the two SHGs and it would be paid to the banks.