http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/Banking-operations-to-be-hit-for-three-days/article13986511.ece

Normal banking operations across the country will be affected for the next three days due to the nationwide strike on Friday combined with weekend holidays.Consequently, some of the ATMs in major metros might go dry. Cheque clearances and other transactions will get delayed at least by three more days.More than 3,50,000 employees of public sector, private and foreign banks, will take part in Friday’s strike. The strike call has been given by the All India Bank Employees’ Association (AIBEA) protesting against the implementation of Career Progression Scheme (CPS) by five associate banks of the State Bank of India namely State Bank of Mysore, State Bank of Patiala, State Bank of Bikaner and Jaipur, State Bank of Hyderabad and State Bank of Travancore.Unusual rush“Chennai city alone has 3,000 ATMs. There is unusual rush at ATMs either for withdrawing cash for travel or to meet expenditure for Pongal festival. Besides, since Tuesday, customers in Chennai have been withdrawing the flood relief amount offered by the Tamil Nadu government. This might lead to commotion at some places,” said R. Venkatesan, an executive with a private firm.Agreeing that some of the ATMs might go dry soon, AIBEA general secretary, C.H. Venkatachalam told The Hindu, “We have asked the banks to do maximum filling of cash at all ATMs on Thursday itself. Barring a few private agencies, most of the banks in Chennai city will not be filling cash for the next three days.”NegotiationsHe also said that employees were not against the implementation of CPS, if it was done properly after due negotiation.“It was only in June 2015, we signed a pact with bank managements covering 44 banks on wage revision and improvement in working conditions. Why only these five associate banks are in a hurry and want to violate it. Even now, we are ready to negotiate with them. But they are not listening to us.Hence, the strike is forced on us,” he said.Charge against banksAccording to Mr. Venkatachalam, the associate banks are attempting to violate the agreement and impose different service conditions like asking clerical staff to do officer duty on meagre allowance, increased working hours, transfers and contract jobs.Some of the bank managements said they would take the help of non-striking employees to render normal banking services on Friday.