http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/entertainment/Baring-the-soul/article14006916.ece

The closing act at the International Theatre Festival of Kerala (or ITFoK) was Thoda Dhyan Se , a potent solo piece by the Delhi-based actor, Mallika Taneja, who begins the performance by placing herself completely naked before a capacity audience at ITFoK’s intimate black-box Natayagruham. In this striking moment of feminine repose, Taneja evokes Amrita Sher-Gil’s 1934 painting, Self Portrait as Tahitian, both in its beauty and resilience. Her impassive strength radiates outwards as she peers out, turning her head slowly, into the voyeuristic gaze that must surely have permeated the space at the very instant the lights come on. She remains unperturbed and tranquil.Here on, Taneja starts speaking, adopting a child-like speech pattern, immediately breaking this temporal illusion of a self-possessed woman of boundless mystery. She starts tying colourful scarves around herself, adding layers of clothing with each passing moment, even as she recounts how unsafe Delhi is, and what girls must do to keep themselves safe, in these difficult times (hence the title). This is very clearly a patriarchal discourse, and the piece succinctly illustrates how stripping women of any agency can infantilise them. Taneja’s persona is of a fetishised child-woman, deeply entrenched in the status quo, for whom there seems to be no escape clause. The woman within is lost forever. The tragedy is how oppression reconditions women, and those spectators who are men are shown a demented reality in which they are most complicit. The piece thus opens itself to multiple levels of spectatorship. Towards the end, Taneja is a misshapen entity, smothered and disfigured by the clothes she has pulled on. Yet, her essential humanism remains. This is a performance whose considerable power lies in its rawness. It harnesses none of the feminine angst that has marked (and often marred) other creative works on the condition of women in India. At just 20 minutes long, it is not so much a triumph of artistry, but rather, a testament of a woman’s willingness to place herself in the middle of a very important conversation. Taneja takes it no further, hedging her bets on a singular issue. These are intelligent creative choices. Later, she addresses the audience genially, asking for responses. At ITFoK, the women are moved, men are awed — one even asks for her hand in marriage. Some miss the point completely. Yet, it is compelling.At the same venue two nights earlier, in the play Colors of Trans 2.0 , the transsexual performer, Living Smile Vidya, had also bared her reconfigured body, showing us how her breasts had been reconstructed from adipose tissue taken from her own belly. There was a controversy regarding videography during that performance, and Taneja ensured no mobile phones were allowed inside during hers. The audience at ITFoK is no stranger to on-stage nudity, and almost blasé about it in international fare, but the ‘Indian body’ is a different beast altogether. Both Glady and Taneja have delivered important statements using their bodies.Although the piece was first exhibited in 2014, it was only picked up by ITFoK for this year’s edition after winning an award at the Zurich Theatre Spectakel. That festival’s artistic director, Sandro Lunin, along with several other international theatre curators, were special invitees at this year’s ITFoK. The buzz on the ground is that Thoda Dhyan Se will travel to several places across the globe.(The author is a freelance writer and theatre critic)Corrections & Clarifications:This article has been edtied for a factual error.