http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/Barrage-of-complaints-against-private-schools-greet-CM-Sisodia/article13992679.ece

A barrage of complaints involving private schools in Delhi greeted Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and his Deputy Manish Sisodia on Sunday.The duo, along with Education Department officials, were addressing parents seeking to admit their wards in private schools across the city.The session, however, focused heavily on malpractices adopted by various private schools. While most parents narrated how private schools blatantly violated the EWS guidelines, others sought to inform the Ministers on an array of malpractices.Pitampura resident Shobha Suri, who does not fall under the EWS category, had to pay a heavy donation to secure admission for her daughter at a Shalimar Bag school.“I got my daughter admitted into the Shalimar Bagh branch of a school. Later, the school authorities demanded a development fee for transferring my child to the senior branch,” she said.Randhir Pratap from Dilshad Garden had admitted his sons in the same school. Initially, his younger son’s was given the option to choose between CBSE and CBSE-International (CBSE-I). Later, the school made CBSE-I compulsory.“Today, I am forced to pay a monthly fee of Rs.10,000 for my younger son alone,” he added.Troubled by growing ignorance of private schools, Samson Mathew stated that “some private schools have started a new way of minting money. At first, they take in students in excess of the seat capacity. Later, just before board examinations, they ask the same students to either pay a hefty fee or go to some other school.”Mr. Mathew promised to provide the government with incriminating evidence against such schools.Mohammed Yameen of South Delhi’s JJ colony complained that none of the students from his relatively-impoverished colony made it to the top schools in their vicinity under the EWS quota.“None of the students from my colony were taken in by these schools. The private schools have devised a mechanism for robbing seats meant for children from the economically weaker sections,” he added.On whether staff quota has been scrapped, Mr. Kejriwal said his government has provided for a separate quota that allows children of the school staff to study in the same institution.“Children have the right to study in the same school in which their parents are employed,” he added.Meanwhile, stressing that every child has the right to receive a comprehensive education, Mr. Kejriwal assured parents that strict action will be taken against schools violating the government’s order. Further, he promised to introduce around 25 new government schools by 2016.(The author is an intern with The Hindu )Kejriwal, Sisodia were addressing parents seeking to admit their wards in private schools