http://www.thehindu.com/features/kids/Battle-of-the-minds/article13999403.ece

Geniuses in-the-making gathered and greeted their peers as they ran facts and numbers in their minds, frantically writing the correct answers in the preliminary round of the event and wasting no time to press the buzzer — all in the hope of winning the coveted position of the winner. Knowledge and quick reflexes brought forth the best of the best. The Young World quiz got off to a great start as several teams from the Hubbali and Mangalore region participated in the 16 edition of the quiz last week.The quiz, which has always been a vital part of the The Hindu Young World and The Hindu In School programme, is open to students from Std. VII to IX. Registration fees were waived and children were allowed to walk in to the competition free of charge.HubbaliOn January 7, the Samskrutika Bhavan at New Cotton Market in Hubbali was abuzz with the enthusiasm of the children waiting patiently for their chance to become the next whiz kids. And that title went to Chinmay D. Hegde and Prajwal M. Yaji of Lions English Medium School, Sirsi. The two managed to build up a substantial lead ahead of the other teams and maintained their position with 48 points. Their joy knew no bounds as they propelled their team to becoming the winners. This time, the victory was extra sweet because both Chinmay and Prajwal participated in last year’s quiz as well, but could not get through to the final round.“We could not do well then, but what we learnt last year helped us prepare better and do well this time,” they said as they beamed.The first runners up were Pramath M. and Anantnag K. of Nirmala K. Thakkar High School, Hubbali with 37 points. Rasshi Mondra and Tamojeet R.C. from Jindal Vidya Mandir, Torangal came close with 35 points to finish as second runners up. Over 170 teams participated in the event.The winners received trophies, bicycles and certificates for their triumph. The runners up also received trophies and certificates, while all the other teams who didn’t get through to the finals were awarded goodie bags and participation certificates. The prizes and certificates were given away by Khusboo Goel Chowdhary, IAS, Managing Director of Hubbali Electricity Supply Company (HESCOM) while Vinod V. Dattawadkar, Assistant General Manager, State Bank of India gave away trophies and certificates to other finalists.V.V. Ramanan, our familiar and customary quizmaster, conducted the quiz that went on for nearly three hours, engaging the children and giving away prizes to those from the audience who answered the quiz questions passed on by the final six teams. Questions ranged from current affairs, science and technology, history, sports, literature, music and mythology among other varied subjects.MangaluruJanuary 8 was no different for schools of the Mangaluru region as students bubbling with energy gathered at the Sri Sudhindra Auditorium, Canara Girls High School, Dongerkeri. Excitement could be hardly contained not only by the zealous students but also parents and teachers who had come to encourage their wards and school. But ultimately, the final cheer went to Mahesh Nayak and Mahindra from Canara CBSE School who won the competition with 82 points. Their classmates Nischal R. Bhat and Karan R. Shetty weren’t too far behind with 68 points to finish as first runners up. Anish S. Hebbar and Vishwas Adiga from Little Rock Indian School were adjudged second runners up.It’s quite a turn of events as Mahesh and Mahindra were the second runners up and Nischal and his team mate had won the Young World quiz last year! This time Mahesh and Mahindra decided not to be hasty with their answers and pressed the buzzer only for questions they were sure they knew the answer to. And it definitely paid off as they grinned ear to ear after being declared the winners. They received trophies, bicycles and certificates from chief guest Anoop Khushwali, Manager (Retail Sales), Indian Oil Corporation. Over 190 teams from schools across Mangaluru region took part in the preliminary round written test of the competition.The fireworks of the Young World quiz have only started. So, get busy and be prepared — the quiz will be conducted in Vijayawada, Madurai, Coimbatore, Tiruchirapalli, Hyderabad, Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi, Kozhikode, Chennai, Visakhapatnam and Bengaluru in the coming weeks.RulesTeams, each consisting of two members of the same school, converged at the hall after registering for the event. A preliminary round of written test is cleared to pave the way for the final six teams into the main round of the competition.Sponsors:State Bank of India (prime sponsor)Firefox Bikes, National prize sponsorKOKUYO Camlin, goodies sponsorByjusVIT University is the title sponsor for the 16th edition of the The Hindu Young World quiz.Regional sponsorsFor Hubbali: KLE Society’s BVB College of Engineering and Technology, Associate sponsorJBM Industries, gift sponsorBig Mishra Pedha, snacks sponsorFor Mangaluru: Mahesh PU College and Robomate+, Associate sponsor