http://www.thehindu.com/sport/football/Bayern-Munich-resumes-Bundesliga-with-2-1-win-at-Hamburg/article14015874.ece

Robert Lewandowski scored twice for Bayern Munich to extend its Bundesliga lead with a 2-1 win at Hamburger SV as the league resumed from its month-long winter break.After an encouraging start from the hard-tackling home side, Lewandowski opened the scoring with a penalty in the 37th minute after goalkeeper Rene Adler brought down Thomas Mueller just inside the area. Adler picked up Hamburg’s third yellow card and Lewandowski’s score was Bayern’s only shot on goal in the first half.The Poland striker claimed his second — his 17th of the season — in the 61st, when he deflected Mueller’s volley past the helpless Adler, eight minutes after Aaron Hunt’s free kick somehow found its way in for Hamburg.TV replays made it hard to tell whether Hamburg striker Pierre-Michel Lasogga or the defending Xabi Alonso got a final touch to Hunt’s free kick before it nestled inside Manuel Neuer’s right post, but it was later ruled an own goal for Alonso.Bayern defender David Alaba struck the post with a free kick minutes after what proved Lewandowski’s winner.Bayern moved 11 points clear of Borussia Dortmund ahead of the rest of the 18th round. Dortmund visits Borussia Moenchengladbach on Saturday.Hamburg coach Bruno Labbadia, who was in his first stint in charge when the side last defeated Bayern on Sept. 26, 2009, was furious that his team was left empty-handed despite limiting the visitors’ chances.“It would make you sick from our point of view. We hardly allowed any chances. It’s really annoying for us,” said Labbadia, whose side has now gone 15 competitive games without a win over Bayern.Bayern looked rusty after the 33-day break yesterday. The visitors had to cope without the injured Mario Goetze, Franck Ribery, Medhi Benatia, Rafinha and Juan Bernat. Arjen Robben made a late substitute appearance, while defender Jerome Boateng went off with a groin injury in the 56th. Bayern said Boateng would undergo an examination back in Munich to determine the severity of the injury.“We could have played a little better but I’m satisfied,” Mueller said. “We knew we weren’t at our best level but we knew we were at a level where we could compete and win the game. We’ll improve from game to game.”Bayern is chasing a Bundesliga, Champions League and German Cup treble in Pep Guardiola’s last season in charge.The Spanish coach has announced his intention to leave for the Premier League after completing his three-year deal.