http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Bayalu-Ranga-Mandira-ready-in-Udupi/article14020222.ece

With final touches being given to it, the 3.5-acre land developed by the Udupi City Municipal Council (CMC) at Beedinagudde for conducting public functions, is ready and it will host the Republic Day function on Tuesday.The Udupi CMC has named the sprawling ground as the Mahatma Gandhi Bayalu Ranga Mandira. The ground has been developed at a cost of Rs. 98 lakh, made available to the CMC. The development work of the ground was entrusted to the Nirmiti Kendra. The construction of this ground is likely to put an end to the problem related to holding large public and cultural programmes here. Although the public and cultural functions used to be held at the District Stadium, earlier, it had to be stopped after a synthetic track was developed there.Later, large public meetings were being held at Adiudupi grounds. But, after the construction of a helipad, that ground too became out of bounds for people.As a result of these developments, major public functions, including the Independence Day and Republic Day celebrations, were being held at the MGM College Grounds, which belonged to the college. Therefore, the demand for a large public ground was long overdue. The present Mahatma Gandhi Bayalu Ranga Mandira will meet the demand for not only organising public rallies but also cultural programmes.Besides sporting a majestic look, the Bayalu Ranga Mandira has 12 ft high-mast poles with 24 LED lamps around the 3.5 acres of land. According to Arun Kumar, Project Director of Nirmiti Kendra, this facility would make it possible to hold functions during evenings.There is also a toilet block on the eastern side. The entire ground has been fenced with a concrete compound, fitted with six main gates. The ground has a capacity to hold 1,000 people.The ground has roads on all four sides with stormwater drains around it.“The ground is fully ready. All the problems regarding holding government functions, big public meeting and cultural programmes, including staging of plays and Yakshagana, have been resolved,” said P. Yuvaraj, CMC president.“Although the Republic Day function will be held at the Bayalu Ranga Mandira on Tuesday, we will organise a separate inaugural function for it,” he said.With final touches being given to it, the ground is all set to host Republic Day function on TuesdayThe ground has been named as Mahatma Gandhi Bayalu Ranga MandiraIt has been constructed on a 3.5 acre plotThe Rs. 98-lakh project had been entrusted to Nirmity Kendra