http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Behind-the-weaves/article14001651.ece

For long we have focused on the beauty and magic of Kashmiri art and craft but forgotten all about the hands that create them. Qamoos Bukhari, a 21-year-old, feels that way and through “Borderless: The Artisans of Kashmir”, the photographer is attempting to voice the concern. The book published by Limited Editions (an imprint of Academic Foundation) was released at Bikaner House last week alongside a 10-day photo exhibition of Qamoos’ works.The 108-page book sprinkled with black and white pictures accompanied by text delineates the lives of the artisans in a poignant manner. “There are about 45 artisans in the book who are into diverse art practices — wood carving, making of musical instruments – rabab, sarangi — papier mache, embroidery, calligraphy, carpet weaving, pottery, khatamband etc. And each photo on the facing page carries text which is completely the artisan’s voice and feelings. So, there’s my perspective in those photos and there is their perspective in that text. Everybody knows what these artisans make but nobody knows who they are,” says Qamoos, who spent four years on the project meeting artisans all over Kashmir. The ongoing exhibition at Bikaner House though, is without any captions.It all started with a family trip to Gulmarg as a 10-year-old kid. “We were crossing Kanihama and I wasn’t able to pronounce the name properly and I asked my father to tell me its meaning as well. He told me Kanihama is famous for Kani shawls which are woven using these wooden sticks. It set me thinking but I spent a very little part of my childhood in Kashmir, just seven years. And when I went back in my later years, I couldn’t identify with the culture. I didn’t embark on this project for a book or an exhibition. The camera became a tool of becoming familiar with my culture,” says the photographer.Qamoos is studying English literature at Hindu College in Delhi but has no background in photography except that his father is a cinematographer. And in an interesting twist, Qamoos has taken colour out of the objects which are essentially associated with vibrance and colours. “The black and white pictures, gave a dramatic effect and a detail the colour pictures couldn’t have.”It wasn’t easy shooting these artisans spread all over Kashmir. Qamoos says they are lost in their world and it’s tough to bring them out of there. “In any case this works absorbs all of their energy plus the challenges they face to preserve these art forms and still carry on with them. Initially, when I started shooting them as a 17-year-old, they wouldn’t take me seriously. They would reply to my questions in a funny manner but when I persisted the ice broke. All of them asked me, so many photographers, journalists, scholars have met us, spoke to us but what comes out ultimately is their opinion not what we feel.”An intricate kani shawl — a twill tapestry technique of weaving — can take up to 2-3 years and the weaver spends 12-14 hours a day on that piece. A 93-year-old Kani shawl weaver, who is featured in the book, told Qamoos not to take his photos but of his shawls because spending so much time with it, all his emotions have gone into it. But Qamoos has refrained from focusing on the objects. For the sake of design, a few pictures of the objects have been inserted into the book but to take the reader’s attention to the force behind those creations, Qamoos has trained his lens on the artisans. “And the text is not minimal like in a typical coffee table book. The artisans are talking about real issues facing them, loss of identity, dignity, women who embroider talk about how they are paid less than male embroiders.There are concerns about rise of capitalism as to how one person just cancelled order because he got some machines to do the work.They talk about the struggle to recover from the 2014 floods.”