http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Bengaluru%E2%80%99s-garbage-issue-back-to-the-fore/article13988996.ece

The garbage issue in Bengaluru is back with a bang in just about a year after a settlement was arrived at by Chief Minister Siddaramaiah with the protestors who arrived at his doorstep seeking a halt to garbage dumping in their residential areas on the outskirts of Bengaluru.An estimated 3,500 tonnes of garbage is generated in Bengaluru every day and the quantum is only growing with even civil construction debris and industrial waste thrown in and there being no enforcement to control the violations. In a way, violations are encouraged since it adds more money to the personal pockets of the personnel of the health wing of the BBMP.The government, leave alone the Bruhat Bengaluru Municipal Corporation, is yet to evolve a clear-cut solution to handle the issue which has struck successive governments over the past decade. The much-promised waste-to-wealth plants, which included generation of electricity, have not got off to a start and all that is being done at the present juncture is to segregate garbage although in a limited way. Landfills are fast depleting and residents on the outskirts are annoyed with the lackadaisical fashion in which garbage disposal is being handled.Ironically, the garbage issue surfaces at regular intervals particularly during festival seasons or when the garbage contracts are in the process of being renewed although it is widely believed that the garbage contractors virtually control the BBMP. Sources in the BBMP say that garbage contracts are in the control of one person, who is the kingpin, although official records speak otherwise.While it is mandated that garbage collection and disposal has to be carried out on all days of the week and the rule being that no garbage should be seen on the wayside, the fact is that garbage contractors work only five days a week . There is none to enforce the rule since even some councillors and officials of the BBMP are on their payrolls.The expenditure incurred by the municipal authorities towards garbage disposal in the State’s capital alone is Rs. 500 crore a year and not much of it is realistic expenditure. Whether it be the garbage that is generated in Bangalore or its transport to the outskirts and its disposal is all based on estimation. The cost of garbage disposal is now eating into the vitals of the BBMP which in reality should be enjoying a huge revenue from it.Interestingly, a multi-national company had recently made a presentation to top officials of the government on a venture to generate compressed natural gas-that can be used to run government buses or generate electricity – from the organic waste in Bangalore. It had even offered to provide an incentive to all residents to segregate waste. This proposal was stated to have been spiked, outright, for reasons best known to the authorities. Ironically, the BBMP has been speaking of installing large waste-converter facilities for years. The financial status of the Bengaluru municipal corporation is pathetic and over the past few years it is largely dependant on government doles. An independent ministry has now been carved out to oversee the upkeep of Bengaluru under the charge of K.J. George and it is now to be seen on how it looks at an upkeep of sanitation leave alone the other civic amenities and infrastructure requirements of Bengaluru.(The writer is Resident Representative, The Hindu Centre for Politics and Public Policy, Bengaluru)