http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/fashion/Best-foot-forward/article14026767.ece

Someone asked me the other day if I always wanted to be a designer. I was confused at first, and then realised she thought I was a designer. Well, I did have those dreams, but then I took a meandering path, and although I’m not strictly into designing, my work demands that I keep up with the latest in fashion, which means it is important to be dressed well at all times. There are those who think it’s tiring to stay stylish always, but not me. Living a consistently stylish life with the ever-changing trends that come and go even before we have decided whether we want to adopt them or not, can get confusing. Everyone has the right to lead a stylish life, especially if you’re in college or just out of it, in a new job, newly married or even a new mom/dad. Staying up-to-date never hurt. So, here are some rules that will keep your head above the water at most times, help you shop wiser and keep a check on your finances.Rule 1: Invest in one expensive piece for every five regular pieces.There are plenty of fast fashion retailers that are crying out to you with their affordable fashion. Not only are they quick to copy the latest trends, but they also seem very pocket friendly. We end up buying five or ten pieces and spend the same money, or sometimes more than what we would have, on a high-end brand. The finer details like fit and finish are slightly compromised on, and these are what we don’t see through (and what the designers charge you for). The wardrobe then becomes overcrowded with pieces that we are soon tired of, and eventually end up being passed down or given away. Invest in a good, branded piece that fits well, and will also keep you from overdoing a trend by having 10 pieces of it.Rule 2: Fashion fades, style lasts forever.This famous quote of Coco Chanel is a constant go-to with all the new trends that come and go, and keeps a check on your personal style. You do not have to adopt a new trend if it doesn’t suit you or your personal style. You will probably end up looking like a complete misfit, or never wearing the piece you bought because it doesn’t suit you.Rule 3: Buy pieces that are versatile.Some pieces of clothing can be very restrictive. You can wear them only a particular way. The more number of creative ways you can come up with to wear an outfit, the more you feel satisfied having made the purchase.Rule 4: Have a style uniform.Yes you read right — a uniform, like a school goer. Having a style uniform of, say, three pieces, can actually help you when shopping, or when you open your closet and feel you have nothing to wear. Whether it is a kurta, a scarf, your blue jeans or white T-shirt, these pieces will not only define your personal style, but will also simplify dressing up in a jiffy. Keeping these pieces up-to-date will keep your dress code intact, narrow down your shopping, and will never be a waste of your money.Rule 5: Wear, wash, wear again.All of us have our favourites in the closet. Like your favourite pair of jeans, which are meant to be worn and repeated with various other combinations. Do not shy away from repeating these essentials. It is what you wear them with that will give you the killer look. Once you get the hang of how to maximise the pieces, staying stylish is no more than just wearing what you already have.(Write in to me at staystylish24x7@gmail.com)