http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Best-of-both/article14015928.ece

Delhi-based producers Ashvin Mani Sharma and Ash Roy look into the future and the past with their new electronic music project Bit of Both. The duo, who also set up Soupherb Records as a label in 2014, were previously known for their work as the band Jalebee Cartel – considered one of the frontrunners of Indian electronica about a decade ago.Bit of Both certainly seems to be concerned with dualities – right from the name to the title of their debut album Prequels and Sequels. Ashvin Mani Sharma says: “We have been working on this album for two years or so, but we were not in any kind of hurry. We wanted to be happy with each and every track and get it all right in one go. It worked well because we didn’t set any deadlines and just tried to make each track as good as possible.” Part of the album process taking time probably had to do with getting guests involved on it – from producer Gaurav Raina aka GRAIN from Midival Punditz to singer Anushka Manchanda, techno producer Kohra, and guitarist Bhrigu Sahni.But at their recent set of shows promoting the album, including a banger of a set at Blue Frog, Bengaluru, on January 23, they preferred to keep it simple with no live collaborators joining them on stage. Ash Roy says, “As of now, it’s only Ashvin and I. Ashvin is on the laptop handling triggering, mixing, FX, synths and I’m on vocals and percussions. We have our good friend Varun Desai on visuals. Our collaborators are not joining us for the album launch, but in the future we do have plans.”With emphasis on visuals, Bit of Both is certainly carrying forward aspects of Jalebee Cartel that extend beyond the dancefloor-friendly music. Roy says, “We definitely wanted to continue with the live aspect of what Jalebee used to do.” Sharma adds, “It is a huge part of who we are and we are very proud of what we did. For a while we explored our personal styles but Ash and me still felt like we wanted to perform live again so we got back to jamming. I think we always had the ideas but it took us a while to find our sound.” Bit of Both comes quite a few years after Jalebee Cartel called it quits, though. In the meantime, Sharma performed as Calmchor while Ash Roy had his own solo techno/minimal project. Sharma assures us that Bit of Both doesn’t really affect any other ongoing projects like Calmchor. “Both are so different in terms of style that it is like scratching an itch in different parts of the body. Some days you feel like doing one and some days the other, so I don’t think anything will be affected.”The charm of Prequels and Sequels also lies in its use of live instruments, including Sahni on the guitars for ‘Indian Blues’. While Sharma says not all Indian electronic producers are ready to bring in live instruments, Roy adds, “In the past, when we started Jalebee, there were very few electronic artists doing what we were doing. Our friends Midival Punditz were already doing it. Right now we have more electronic artists collaborating and incorporating live instruments and it’s a good thing. This only proves that the audience has grown and they have an open mind.”Prolific producers that they are, there’s lots more studio time that Sharma and Roy will clock in this year to release more music. Roy says, “We have lots planned. A lot more music will be out this year, from Bit of Both as well as Ash Roy. Soupherb has something really cool in the pipeline. Plus we are going to take Bit of Both international.”