http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Tiruchirapalli/Beta-teams-patrol-the-streets-of-Tiruchi/article13988393.ece

Amid recurring instances of property offences of varied nature, the City Police authorities have put in place extra bike patrolling teams.Codenamed “Beta”, the new teams are in addition to “Alpha” bike patrolling parties which were launched three years ago.The Beta teams have been created for every police station falling within the city limits to carry out patrolling in the respective limit. The city police accounts for 14 police stations which fall under the – Cantonment, Golden Rock, Fort, and Srirangam ranges.Every Beta team has a head constable and a constable drawn from the Armed Reserve. Each team has been provided with a motorcycle and a walkie – talkie.Recurring instances of property crimes, especially chain snatchings in the recent times at different places within the city, prompted the formation of Beta teams in addition to Alpha parties, say police sources. The city witnessed a slew of chain snatchings causing concern among the public which led to the formation of a special team to nab the offenders.The special team recently arrested a 10-member gang allegedly involved in a series of chain snatchings and recovered over 50 sovereigns of gold chains from it. However, the city saw a couple of chain snatchings even after the arrest of the gang members.Police sources say unlike Alpha parties, the Beta teams will function from 2 p.m. to 9 p.m. in their respective police station limits. The Beta teams would cover extension areas and “crime-prone” spots in their respective jurisdiction during non-peak and peak hours as well.The objective of the formation of the Beta teams is to cover more areas in addition to those by the Alpha parties to curb crimes more so chain snatchings, says a senior police officer.The bike patrolling Alpha teams were started in 2011 to cover some areas. Recurring instances of crimes prompted the city police authorities to extend the Alpha teams to the remaining police stations in March 2012. Prevention of crimes on streets was the main objective behind the formation of Alpha teams by covering interior areas where four-wheelers could not penetrate. Despite the Alpha teams, property crimes have continued within the city limits be it chain snatchings or other crimes.Police sources say criminals these days were adopting different modus operandi with those committing vehicle lifting also involved in chain snatchings, said the sources.