http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Motoring/Between-two-worlds/article14012118.ece

Home-grown automaker Mahindra & Mahindra is leveraging its capabilities to offer cars in more segments than just affordable SUVs, with the launch of the KUV100. A hatchback fitted with SUV-like cues to differentiate it from the competition, the KUV100 is Mahindra’s first indigenously-developed car.First impressions with the KUV are striking, thanks to its unconventional looks. When viewed from the head on, it hooks the viewer’s attention. The swept-back headlights and pinched grille are reminiscent of the Range Rover Evoque and Mahindra designers have given the car butch cladding on the front bumper and a bottom scuff plate to make it look more SUV and less hatchback. The detailing in the headlights, along with the distinctive daytime running LEDs are noteworthy.From the side profile, though, the KUV looks slightly disproportionate. Moreover, there are too many seemingly unnecessary design elements cluttering the car’s flank. The massive squared wheel arches, also an attempt to arm the KUV with SUV credentials, make the 14-inch wheels look smaller than they already are. The rear door handle placement at the aft of the rear window is a nice touch though.At the rear, the KUV looks like a tall hatchback, while the protruding single-body tail lamps give it a distinctive identity. In contrast to its exteriors, the interiors of the KUV100 are unambiguously pleasant. The high-set seats make for easy access, while space for both front and rear passengers is ample. The centre console, more functional than stylish, houses the infotainment system, the aircon controls and the gear lever. A unique feature of the KUV is the optional front bench seat, allowing the car to seat six. However, the front middle seat is not very comfortable, and the lack of a centre airbag coupled with the provision of just a lap belt for restraint, makes it a bit unsafe. It can also be folded down to be used as an armrest by the front passengers. The standard five-seat version gets a handy centre storage area with lots of cubbyholes between the more omfortable and supportive seats. For rear passengers, both knee and head room is ample, which the rear bench provides good thigh support and is wide enough to fit three comfortably. In fact, this is one of the best bench seats around. The abundance of storage spaces in the KUV deserves a mention. Each door gets a bottle holder, both the front and rear armrests get cup-holders, a large, removable storage box is concealed below the front passenger seat and another one is hidden beneath the floor at the back. Boot space stands at a reasonable 243 litres, and can be expanded by folding the back seats down.The good news continues under the hood. The KUV100 is the first car to be powered by Mahindra’s new family of petrol and diesel engines, christened mFalcon. The diesel engine on offer in the KUV is a 1.2-litre three-cylinder mill constructed using cast iron for the block and aluminium for the head. It churns out an adequate 76.4bhp at 3,750rpm and 19.37kgm between 1,750 and 2,250rpm. The diesel engine can be operated in Power or Economy mode, and is fairly responsive, especially after the turbo kicks in at about 1900rpm. However, the power build-up, as the revs climb, is best described as linear.The petrol engine is also a 1.2-litre three-cylinder mill, although completely constructed using aluminium. It gives an impressive power output of 81.8bhp at 5,500rpm along with 11.7kgm torque at 3,500-3,600rpm. It is a responsive engine, though exciting would not be an adjective attributable to it. Both engines are mated to a five-speed manual gearbox, placed to fall nicely to hand and characterized by short throws that make for crisp gear changes.Mahindra claims that the diesel KUV will return a fuel efficiency of 25.3kpl when driven in Economy mode. The ride and handling of the car are commendable, though there is a bit of body roll around corners, and the brakes with more bite would help too.Evidently, the KUV has a lot to offer even despite its odd styling, in terms of road presence, a well thought-out and spacious cabin, capable engines and good fuel efficiency. With competitive prices ranging from Rs 4.42 lakh (ex-showroom, Pune) for the base petrol variant to Rs 6.76 lakh for the top-spec diesel, the KUV has been placed in the intensely competitive hatchback segment. The unique hatchback-SUV-crossover design is what could be the crucial differentiator.