http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/Big-plans-for-Warangal-unveiled/article13985581.ece

The State government proposes to set up a ‘Special Development Authority’ for Warangal district development and allocate Rs. 300 crore from the budget every year, said Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao here on Wednesday.Summing up his three-day visit and series of review meetings, the Chief Minister said an integrated textile park, first of its kind in the country, would be set up in the district shortly for which Rs. 100 crore has already been sanctioned to acquire 3,000 acres. Soon the district will have a health university, tribal university, veterinary and agricultural colleges.The multi-speciality hospital would be constructed on KMC premises while the MGM Hospital would be turned into a centre for woman and child care institution.The district headquarters will have a multi-storeyed district Collector building, a police commissionerate building on DIG bungalow campus and another integrated building for Greater Warangal Municipal Corporation. “We want to construct a series of buildings replacing the old ones. All old school buildings will be demolished to construct new ones. In next three years, it was decided to spend Rs. 3,000 crores in Warangal as it is the biggest city after the State capital Hyderabad in Telangana,” the Chief Minister said. Own building for music college, a sprawling park on 250 acres, underground drainage to tri-cities were among others announced by him. “We reviewed all schemes. The Mission Bhagirath will be expedited and from April 30, whole of the Jangaon Assembly constituency, three mandals each in Station Ghanpur and Palakurthy constituencies will get drinking water supply,” the Chief Minister said. On irrigation, he said the State government plans to construct a barrage across the river Godavari to augment the Devadula project.The water from Devadula would help fill the Rammappa, Laknavaram and Bhim Ghanpur tanks to ensure irrigation water throughout the year. The Mid Manair project will also be taken up soon and repairs to Kakatiya canal will be completed this year.“We will engage a private consultant to give us a master plan at the earliest. In February, I will visit the district again to lay foundation to as many projects as I have announced today ,” Mr. Rao said.Textile park, ORR and creating an education hub among others in the pipeline