http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/Bigger-better-than-ever-before/article14005075.ece

s the 13th edition of the Standard Chartered Mumbai Marathon took off in the early hours of a chilly morning, the overwhelming feeling coursing through the race route was of an ever-growing community that wanted to be part of the action. The residents of the city descended on the streets in large numbers to make the Mumbai marathon a special experience through impromptu rock music performances, trumpet bands, cheerleading squads or just people lining up to offer refreshments to runners.“What I really noticed today was the level of support I received from people and that encouraged me all the way,” said Sandhya Srinivas, 28, an employee of Axis Bank. “This year I noticed, especially on the Peddar Road stretch, there were more children who had come to watch and motivate the runners.”Ms Srinivasan was one of an increasing number of corporate employees who were participating in the race. “It has become a big event in the office and my team members, who also run the marathon, really motivate each other every year.”Many participants remarked that this year’s marathon was more professionally organised. In fact, several notches higher than previous editions. “Crowd management was much better and the participants didn’t run into people taking part in the dream run,” said Ashish Singh, a businessman, who took part in the marathon.A large part of the improved organisation of the event was better community support. “There were more stations with water and cold sponges. Several people along the way were offering water and biscuits,” Mr Singh said.The real heroesAlong the course of the race, several people who had run a part of the marathon stayed on to encourage others. Though the Mumbai Marathon is sometimes accused of being a bit celebrity- focused, these individuals were the real heroes of the marathon. Many people were also running for a cause, either in the dream run or in other events like the senior citizens’ run.Several experienced runners, with more than three or four marathons under their belt, were seen helping others finish the race. They stopped to help runners loosen up after a gruelling uphill run past Peddar Road leading to the Marine Drive stretch.Later, along with teams of runners from countries such as the US and South Africa, they formed an extended community of hundreds who relaxed after the race at the Azad Maidan grounds near the Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus.Apart from the serious business of running, several people ran for causes such as saving water or the environment, in support of martyrs in the recent Pathankot attack, for better LGBT inclusion and in support of charitable causes or non-governmental organisations. A particularly touching sight was of a group of army veterans disabled following war-time injuries, all in red T-shirts, taking part in the marathon.Medical help for participants was also provided along the way. The Asian Heart Institute, providing medical aid to the marathon for the past 12 years, set up 11 medical aid stations and deployed 12 ambulances along various routes.Approximately 4,000 runners needed medical attention during the marathon with the more serious cases being of dehydration.No hospitalisationDr Vijay D’Silva, Medical Director and Director of Critical Care, Asian Heart Institute, said: “In the past 13 years, this is the record event. By the end of the marathon there was not a single hospitalised participant. The reasons could be better qualification standards set by the organisation, comfortable atmospheric temperature compared to the past two years and well-trained and informed runners.”A contingent of 100 participants from the institute, including several cardiac rehabilitation veterans, participated in the race.