http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/Bihar-political-parties-vie-to-celebrate-Karpoori-Jayanti/article14018284.ece

Political parties in Bihar on Sunday vied with one another to celebrate the birth anniversary of former Chief Minister Karpoori Thakur in an apparent attempt to woo the Extremely Backward Class the socialist leader belonged to.While Chief Minister Nitish Kumar called for conferring Bharat Ratna to the late leader posthumously, the BJP charged that both the ruling JD(U) and the RJD “have no right to” celebrate Karpoori Thakur jayanti as “they have forged an alliance with the Congress party to be in power.”Earlier, the fight between the BJP and ruling JD(U) over Sri Krishna Memorial Hall as a venue to celebrate the occasion reached the Patna High Court.The court, however, allowed the JD(U) to organise the function at the venue but BJP State president Mangal Pandey said, “Though, on some technical grounds, the court allowed the JD(U) to organise the function there, we’ll appeal against the judgment with the division bench and not leave the matter there”.“Had the BJP requested me for the same venue to celebrate Karpoori Thakur jayanti, I would have given it to them. But I wonder since when have they started celebrating the birth anniversary of Karpoori Thakur, who was a great socialist leader?” asked Mr. Nitish Kumar a day after the court verdict.Later, like the RJD, the BJP too decided to celebrate the occasion at the party headquarters. Besides it, other parties like Lok Janshakti Party, Rashtriya Lok Samata Party, Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) and Jan Adhikar Party too celebrated the occasion in the State capital with the respective leaders garlanding portrait of the leader.While addressing party workers and leaders at the venue, mr. Nitish Kumar pitched for conferring a posthumous Bharat Ratna for the politician, who passed away in 1988.“Since the BJP has started celebrating Karpoori Thakur Jayanti and the party is in power at the Centre, I demand that they should confer Bharat Ratna posthumously to the great socialist leader”, said Mr. Kumar.Senior BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi said both Mr. Nitish Kumar and RJD chief Lalu Prasad have no right to celebrate the birth anniversary as they have forged an alliance with the Congress Party to be in power.“They (Mr. Nitish Kumar and Mr. Lalu Prasad) claim to be the real followers of Karpoori Thakur. But throughout his political career, Karpooriji fought against the Congress Party. He even joined hands with the Jan Sangh and Communist parties to stop the Congress from coming to power”, said Mr. Modi.“But, today they are sitting in the lap of the same Congress party to be in power”, he added.However, Mr. Lalu Prasad said the late politician was “a true leader of the extremely backward class”.“He lived a simple life even after becoming the Chief Minister of the State. His simplicity cannot be matched by anyone today and he was also a great visionary”, said Mr. Prasad at the RJD headquarters.State Governor Ram Nath Kovind too participated in the function. Commenting on the political calculations in Bihar, social analyst Hitendra Anupam said currently the Extremely Backward Class comprises over 30 per cent of the total population, adding that all political parties compete with each other to woo the section for electoral benefits.