http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/Bikers-are-worst-affected/article13996253.ece

For two wheelers, the spine is the first casualty as they struggle to make their way around the city.Through anecdotal evidence and sheer numbers of those complaining of back problems, it would seem like the two wheeler rider is the worst affected by the numerous potholes and the steep road humps that pockmark the city’s roads.“I won’t be surprised if the number of people with spine injuries has doubled over three years,” says Sharan S. Patil, Chairperson and chief Orthopaedist of Sparsh Hospital. He said there was an “undeniable pattern” in the complaints of back pain, and it peaks after the rains when potholes multiply and spread in the roads of the city.“It is worse for the pillion rider as he or she has just a split second to react to the pothole. The jolt of going into the pothole can lead to micro-fractures of the spine which cause a lot of pain,” he says.More often than not, successive trips over a pothole, puts pressure on the disc joints in the vertebral column that can lead to degeneration.“People are spending more time on the road now…while there are many factors for spinal injuries, bad roads is definitely a major factor,” says S. Balaji Pai, Head of the Department of Neurosurgery at Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute. Generally, after spinal surgery, doctors tell their patients not to go on two-wheelers or auto rickshaws.Terrible roads, coupled with unhealthy and sedentary lifestyles, these spinal issues are now being seen in younger patients. “We are even seeing teenagers come forward with spinal problems,” said Dr. Pai.Black spots remainAnalysing the patterns of accidents due to poor condition of roads, the traffic police had earlier in the year made a list of 10 accident-prone spots in the city. These included high-density roads of K.R. Puram, Madivala, Kamakshipalya, Peenya, stretches of the Outer Ring Road, Kanakapura Road, among others.A senior police official said though repeated reminders had been sent to the Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagar Palike (BBMP), these stretches of the roads have remained the same.A BBMP official said most major roads had been patched up, and by March-end, potholes developed in the incessant rains of the monsoons will be filled up. In October, over 67,000 sq.metres of bad patches and nearly 30,000 potholes were identified in the city. While claiming a majority had been filled, corporation officials said they had stopped keeping a track of potholes in the city.