http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/Birthplace-museum-gets-38-rare-books-on-Netaji/article14017577.ece

While Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday made public digital copies of 100 secret files of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose at New Delhi, his Birthplace museum here also got richer when a scholar handed over to it 38 rare books written on the legendary leader’s spiritual and political life.A. S. Sanyasi Rao from Andhra Pradesh handed over the books to the museum authorities here at Odia Bazaar on the occasion of the INA hero’s 119the birth anniversary. The books add up to the rich collection of the museum, which now has over 500 titles on Netaji.The museum also received a copy of a 45-minute documentary film on Netaji’s INA’s achievements prepared by Mumbai-based Odia film maker Sai Mohapatra. The documentary profiles several Odia freedom fighters who had served valiantly in INA.The books will be in display in the galleries soon and the documentary will be screened regularly inside the museum, informed its curator J. P. Das.Earlier in the morning, Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik hoisted the National Flag and garlanded the statue of Netaji inside the museum and paid rich tributes to the freedom fighter. “Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose is a son of our soil. Cuttack is witness to his early life. His life is an example of rarest courage and patriotism. We all are proud of him. I pay my heartfelt tribute to him on his birth anniversary,” Mr. Patnaik said after visiting the museum.The museum hosted day-long activities as hundreds of Netaji lovers, particularly school and college students, thronged the place to participate in the special yagna held here every year on this occasion inside the room where Netaji was born on this day in 1897.Similarly, many functions were held in the city and other places of the State on the day to observe Netaji Jayanti including padyatras, cycle rallies, art exhibitions, blood donation camps and competitions and cultural programmes.