http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/BJD-expands-its-protest-against-Polavaram-project/article13988383.ece

Ruling Biju Janata Dal on Thursday registered its strong protest against Polavaram, a multi-purpose irrigation project being built in Andhra Pradesh, by staging dharna in front of Raj Bhawan here and observing 12-hour bandh in four southern Odisha districts.“The Polavaram will trigger submergence vast stretch of area in sought Odisha including 25 villages and cause displacement of 6818 people including 5618 tribals. A total 7656 ha of agricultural land would go under water adversely affecting life and livelihood of tribals,” noted BJD in its memorandum addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.A BJD delegation comprising of four State ministers and other leaders submitted the memorandum to Governor S. C. Jamir.“Despite a court case pertaining to Polavaram is pending in Supreme Court of India, Andhra Pradesh government has been pressing forward the project. Several mandatory technical provisions have not been complied for the project,” said Debi Prasad Mishra, State Industries Minister, said here.The regional party said even though Odisha government had time and again drawn attention of central government seeking reconsideration of the project, the efforts did not yield any result.“It is a matter of surprise that even as the project will adversely affect tribal villages in a big way, Union Ministry of Tribal Affairs was not consulted. The mandatory permission of Pallisabha was not obtained for the project. The government had demanded rejection of environmental clearance on these grounds, but nothing happened,” it pointed out.On July 28, 2014, Odisha Legislative Assembly had passed unanimous resolution seeking halt in Polavaram project which would have devastating impact on tribals in the Odisha and a House Committee had sought appointment to apprise Prime Minister Mr. Modi about the issue, but permission for appointment was yet to be received, the BJD mentioned in the memorandum. The party demanded that Andhra Pradesh must stop the project.In the meantime, the 12-hour-bandh called by BJD against Polavaram project has crippled normal life in Malkanagiri, Nabarangpur, Rayagada and Koraput district. Commercial establishments remained closed while there were fewer vehicles noticed on roads during the day.The party fielded Bijay Nayak, BJD’s State General Secretary for Koraput, Pradip Panigrahi, Higher Education Minister for Rayagada, Puspendra Singh Deo, Housing and Urban Development Minister and Ramesh Chandra Majhi, Commerce and Transport Minister for ensuring bandh against Polavaram project passes smoothly.Reacting to BJD’s protest in Capital City as well as in four southern Odisha districts, State Congress President Prasad Harichandan said: “The State government has not been able to present its concerns before technical committee properly.It does not have authentic assessment about extent damaged to be caused by Polavaram in Odisha. When there is secret bonhomie existing between BJD and BJP, the protests appeared to be a drama.” Union Tribal Affairs Minister Jual Oram told electronic media that BJD government was not seriously taking up the issue.