http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/BJD-wins-polls-for-two-urban-bodies-in-Odisha/article14013161.ece

Ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) got clear majority in the recently held elections for newly formed Baliguda and Champua Urban Local Bodies (ULB) in Odisha, for which counting of votes was held on Thursday.Polling for these two ULBs had been held on January 19. In both these places opposition Congress and BJP did not fare well. Out of 13 wards of Baliguda Notified Area Council (NAC), in nine wards candidates of the BJD won. Congress won in three wards while BJP won in only one. Champua NAC also has 13 wards. As per the results declared on Thursday, BJD won in nine wards while independent candidates were winners in rest four wards. Both the Congress and BJP failed to open their accounts in Champua.As elections for these two NACs formed in December 2014 were being held for the first time, campaign battle between three major political parties was to high-pitched. Senior leaders as well as cine stars linked with political parties took part in the campaigns. Voters had turned up in large numbers to cast their votes for these elections. Around 83 per cent voters had exercised their franchise in Champua while in Baliguda voting percentage was around 74 per cent.As per the schedule new chairpersons of both these NACs are to be elected on Feburay 4. Post of chairperson of Baliguda NAC is reserved for a woman of Scheduled Caste (SC) community, while in Champua, a woman from Scheduled Tribe (ST) would become the chairperson.Commenting on the win in both these ULBs, the BJD spokesperson Samir Ranjan Dash stated that it proved that people of Odisha still had faith on the state government and ruling BJD, led by CM Naveen Patnaik. He added that voters had rejected accusations and allegations being made against the ruling party by opposition parties. But opposition Congress and BJP alleged that money and man power were the catalysts behind win of BJD in Baliguad and Champua.Voter turnout for the elections to the two bodies held on Jan. 19 was above 70 per cent