http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/BJP-files-complaint-against-Marathi-author/article13986482.ece

The row over Shripal Sabnis’ remarks against Prime Minister Narendra Modi has taken an ominous turn with both the ruling BJP and Sanatan Sanstha, a right-wing outfit, demanding that the Marathi author issue a public aplogy.The Pimpri-Chinchwad unit of the BJP on Thursday lodged a complaint with the Pune police against Dr. Sabnis under Section 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) accusing him of attempting to “tarnish” Mr. Modi’s reputation.At a function in Pimpri-Chinchwad last week, Dr. Sabnis, president of the upcoming 89th Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Sahitya Sammelan, 2016, had criticised Mr. Modi as a man forever “smeared with the taint of the 2002 Gujarat riots” and a Prime Minister that “he would not endorse”.“We will not let him [Dr. Sabnis] take the podium at the Sahitya Sammelan unless he issues a public apology,” BJP MP Amar Sable told The Hindu.Even more disturbing is the ‘warning’ issued by Sanatan Sanstha, which was under the scanner for the alleged involvement of its members in the murder of rationalist Narendra Dabholkar, Communist leader Govind Pansare and Kannada scholar M.M. Kalburgi, all gunned down by motorbike-borne assailants.On Wednesday, Dr. Sabnis again alleged “a serious threat” to his life after Sanatan lawyer Sanjeev Punalekar allegedly posted a tweet warning the author of “dire consequences if he dares go for a morning walk.”Mr. Punalekar is defending Sanatan activist Sameer Gaikwad, the prime suspect in Pansare’s murder. Both Dabholkar and Pansare were shot dead while taking their morning walk.Mr. Punalekar has said his tweet is not “a threat at all” and that he is not worried about any police action.Dr. Sabnis has already been given security by the Pune police after he received death threats from Mr. Modi’s supporters in Marathwada. He has refused to take back his statements even if the BJP “hangs him.” “Why should I apologise for praising the Prime Minister,” he has asked. He has clarified that while he did criticise Mr. Modi and the RSS in one context, he had in fact commended Mr. Modi’s ‘courageous’ trip to Pakistan and the mention of Gautam Buddha and Mahatma Gandhi in his foreign policy speeches.