http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/BJP-isolated-as-PDP-Ministers-display-JampK-flag/article13984481.ece

The decision of coalition partner BJP to approach the court against the unfurling of the State flag in Jammu and Kashmir along with the national flag, has led to the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the Opposition National Conference (NC) finding a common ground. PDP Ministers have been exhibiting the State flag at official meetings. State Public Works Minister Altaf Bukhari and Consumer Affairs and Public Distribution (CAPD) Minister Zulfikar Chaudhary were seen presiding over official meetings with both the flags in front of them since last week.State’s Advocate-General Jehangir Iqbal Ganie’s clarification has been a setback to the BJP.“The double Bench has only stayed the single Bench judgment. Whether there is a circular or not, whether there is a judgment or not, the State flag remains there. The State flag has its own status, unmindful of a judgment or a circular,” said Mr. Ganie.BJP leader Farooq Khan and senior advocate Sunil Sethi last week approached the court in Jammu to stay a direction issued by the single Bench, headed by Justice Hasnain Masoodi, on the State flag’s right “to be unfurled along with the National flag on government buildings, official meetings and official entourages.”Justice Masoodi, whose judgment came just days before his retirement, also termed the change in nomenclature of Sadr-e-Riyasat into Governor “against the structure of the Constitution.”It’s for the second time the State judiciary is split on regional lines. In September too, the beef controversy saw split court directions between Srinagar and Jammu courts.State Education Minister Nayeem Akhtar alleged “some elements were creating instability in J&K over the issue”.Meanwhile, the youth wing of National Conference, started a campaign online where they asked its supporters to use the State flag as display pictures on Facebook and Twitter.“The State flag of J&K doesn't undermine or take away the protocol or status of the National Flag and is clearly provided for in our constitution. We started a campaign on Facebook and Twitter, requesting friends and followers to change their display pictures to the J&K State flag and nominate 10 more for the same purpose,” NC additional spokesman Sarah Hayat Shah told The Hindu.“In a few hours it went viral. There was suddenly a red Tsunami all over. Interestingly more and more people were participating with great enthusiasm and it became a chain. I can safely say it was a successful attempt,” Mrs. Shah said.