http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/BJP-organisational-polls-soon/article13976381.ece

The BJP State Unit will soon have its organisational polls where it will elect a new president in the place of its present chief and MLA G.Kishan Reddy who has served his two terms. The presidential polls may be held in the last week of January or the first week of February, Mr.Reddy told a press conference here on Friday.Already, polls are on for village level and booth level committees. District level polls too will be conducted soon, Mr.Reddy informed and said membership for the party in Telangana has reached 20 lakh from the previous 4.5 lakh. Training classes have been conducted at mandal headquarters of 130 to 140 constituencies. Though the polls were initially scheduled for this year end, they have been deferred in view of GHMC elections.Listing out the visits by union ministers ahead of corporation polls, Mr.Reddy said Minister for Surface Transport Nitin Gadkari has a package to announce for the development of roads in Telangana when he comes on January 4 to lay foundation to four-lane Warangal-Hyderabad highway. Health Minister J.P.Nadda will visit the Bhuvanagiri Parliamentary Constituency in the last week of January, while Minister for Steel and Mines Narendra Singh Tomar will visit Adilabad on January 6. Minister for Chemicals and Fertilisers Hansraj Gangaram Ahir too will visit Karimnagar soon. For GHMC elections, the party has constituted a preparatory committee headed by union minister Bandaru Dattatreya. The party will go to polls in alliance with TDP, and with the slogan ‘Mana Hyderabad-Mana BJP-Mana Mayor’, Mr.Reddy said. A ‘People’s Manifesto’ would be prepared with opinions gathered from civil society organisations and people.Lashing out at the ruling party, Mr.Reddy questioned in which capacity Minister K.T.Rama Rao was going around laying foundations for various schemes in the city, and being given free passage by the traffic police. Mr.Rao is being given priority over deputy chief minister, in violation of all the protocols, he alleged.