http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/BJP-to-fight-Congress-on-drought-Central-funds/article14009952.ece

Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilizers Ananth Kumar on Tuesday broad-based the Bharatiya Janata Party’s campaign for the zilla and taluk panchayat elections in the State and declared that the party would fight the Congress government, led by Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, on two major issues of drought and Central funds.Inaugurating the BJP’s Vijay Sankalp Samavesh and virtually launching the party’s election campaign from Belagavi on Tuesday, he said that the Union government had provided Rs. 1,540 crore to tackle drought and Rs. 606 crore towards payment of sugarcane dues to growers. But, so far, the State government had disbursed only Rs. 189 crore towards sugarcane dues while keeping Rs. 417 crore with it.With respect to Belagavi district, quoting the Deputy Commissioner as saying, Mr. Ananth Kumar said that Central fund of Rs. 240 crore was received to tackle drought but nil from the State.‘People deceived’He said that the State government had clearly deceived the people by not taking up any relief work, including arranging drinking water and creating employment opportunities, in the 136 taluks affected by drought, resulting in large-scale migration of workers to neighbouring States in search of livelihood.He said that the State had witnessed more than 1,000 farmers suicide during the last one year and held the Siddaramaiah government directly responsible for this.The BJP workers would organise protests in front of the offices of Deputy Commissioners and Tahsildars all over the State from Thursday and question the Siddaramaiah government on what happened to the funds given by the Union government to the State.Listing the initiatives of the BJP-led NDA government under Prime Minister Narendra Modi, such as Jan Dhan, Atal Pension, life and accidental insurance schemes, he said that the Union government had decided not to increase prices of urea during its five-year term.Also, it had ensured neem coating for urea so that it was not diverted for industrial purpose and prevent it from being mixed with milk or sold in the black market.Earlier, MPs Suresh C. Angadi and Prabhakar Kore, MLAs Umesh V. Katti and Laxman Savadi and BJP district (rural) president Eranna Kadadi spoke.