http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/BJP-calls-Nitish-%E2%80%98helpless-CM%E2%80%99-to-seek-Governor%E2%80%99s-intervention/article14009243.ece

A day after two ruling Janata Dal (United) MLAs courted controversies for allegedly misbehaving with a couple in a running train, opposition BJP on Tuesday called Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar a “helpless CM”, daring him to take action against the two party legislators. The BJP also said it would soon meet the Governor to seek his intervention in checking rising crimes in the State.“Earlier, people were afraid of the RJD but now even JD(U) MLAs have started flexing their muscle power freely and Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has become a bechara mukhya mantri (helpless chief minister) before such elements”, said senior BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi.Criminals have been emboldened ever since the coalition government of RJD-JD(U) and the Congress party came to power in Bihar, he said.Mr. Modi was reacting after two JD(U) MLAs — Sarfaraj Alam and Bima Bharti — hit headlines for wrong reasons recently.Mr. Alam, an MLA from Jokihat assembly constituency in Araria district, was named as an accused in a complaint over allegedly misbehaving with a passenger couple in a Guwahati-Rajdhani train on Sunday night. However, the MLA has denied the charges and claimed that he was not even travelling in the train.Ms. Bharti, an MLA from Rupauli assembly constituency in Purnia district, was charged with helping her controversial husband Awadhesh Mandal, against whom several criminal cases have been lodged, in getting him released from Maranga police station.However, Ms. Bharti too has denied the charges, claiming that she was not aware of how her husband got out of police custody. Later, the police station in-charge, Shivshankar Kumar, was placed under suspension for “laxity in duty”.Earlier, following daylight murders of two engineers, a Patna-based jeweller and several incidents of extortion, Chief Minister Nitish underscored that law and order was, nevertheless, prevailing in Bihar, asserting that “it will be maintained at all cost”.However, incidents of crime continued in the same trend. On Tuesday, Alamganj police in Patna filed a case following a complaint of extortion demand registered by doctor couple Dr. Raj Kishore Prasad and Dr. Hemrani Devnath. They stated that criminals had demanded Rs. 10 lakh in extortion from them.“These are litmus tests for the Chief Minister. A BJP delegation will also meet Governor Ram Nath Kovind soon to seek his intervention in checking the spiralling crime graph”, said Mr. Modi.He also said over 10,000 people were punished through speedy trials in 2010 during the NDA rule “but it came down to 6,000 in 2014 when the JD(U) was the lone power in the government”.The BJP leader, however, begged to differ over the demand of the alliance partner Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) for imposition of President’s rule in Bihar. “I think that phase has not yet come”, Mr. Modi said.Lok Janshakti Party MP Chirag Paswan too had expressed concern over the surging crimes in the State, asserting that “Chief Minister Nitish Kumar appears to have lost all control over the government”.