http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Blood-donation-marks-NTR%E2%80%99s-death-anniversary/article14006874.ece

Telugu Desam activists donated blood at the camps organised by NTR Trust in all districts of the State marking the 20th death anniversary of party’s founder N.T. Rama Rao, said Deputy Chief Minister K.E. Krishnamurthy on Monday.Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu conceived the blood donation programme as a tribute to NTR who had strived for the uplift of the weaker and downtrodden sections and introduced subsidised rice scheme at Rs. 2 a kg for the poorer sections, Mr. Krishnamurthy told the media here. Donating blood was akin to saving a life, he said and complimented party activists who volunteered to donate blood.The blood collected at camps would be sent to hospitals for examination and later to general hospitals and blood banks to be used for the needy patients, Mr. Krishnamurthy said.The Deputy Chief Minister inaugurated the blood donation programme after garlanding a bust of NTR.Later, the Deputy Chief Minister, former Minister T.G. Venkatesh, MLC Silpa Chakrapani Reddy, TDP central disciplinary committee member Somisetty Venkateswarlu, former Ministers K.E. Prabhakar and Erasu Pratap Reddy, Kurnool DCCB chairman M. Mallikarjuna Reddy, Market Committee chairperson Samanthakamani, district general secretary Y. Nageswara Rao Yadav and party leaders B.A.K. Parvez, P. Ravi Kumar and others garlanded the statue of NTR in front of the Collectorate.FelicitatedTwo cultural artistes were felicitated on the occasion lauding them for propagating the government’s welfare programmes.‘Committed towelfare of poor’The Telugu Desam government was committed to implementing all the welfare programmes and Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu continuing the legacy of late N.T. Rama Rao with regard to the schemes that benefit the people living below the poverty line, said N. Chinarajappa here on Monday.At a programme organised by the TDP’s district unit to mark the 20th death anniversary of the party founder, Mr. Rajappa recalled that it was the TDP that implemented several welfare schemes including rice for Rs. 2 per kg for the poor people.“There is no change in the party’s approach towards the welfare schemes. As we are committed to the welfare of the poor, we have implemented the waiver of farm loans and SHG loans in the State,” he said, adding that pensions and free medical care to the poor were the milestone schemes of the State government. Mr. Rajappa said that the party cadre was taking up several programmes including blood donation camps and poor-feeding to mark the death anniversary.Party’s district unit president Parvatha Chitti Babu said that it was the late NTR who invited young graduates into politics and announced reservations in politics. Former Minister Chikkala Ramachandra Rao and others were present.Poor-feedingBlood donation, poor-feeding, distribution of clothes and other activities marked the 20th death anniversary of NTR in East Godavari district.Deputy Chief Minister N. Chinarajappa garlanded NTR’s statue at Peddapuram. He recalled the welfare measures introduced by NTR like Rs. 2-a-kg rice scheme, property right for women, reservations for backward classes and pensions.Party leader Ganni Krishna organised blood donation camp and he himself donated blood.State Girijana Sangham leaders garlanded NTR statue on the way to Gouthama Ghat.Rice distributedBlood donation, eye camps, distribution of rice to the poor marked the 20th death anniversary of NTR.Minister Kimidi Mrunalini and party leaders paid rich tributes by garlanding statues of NTR.Dr. Mrunalini, who inaugurated a free eye camp at Pushpagiri Eye Hospital, recalled how NTR launched several welfare schemes for the benefit of the poor. She asked the patients present at the eye camp not to depend on quacks for eye treatment as it would lead to blindness and also check sugar levels in urine and blood at regular intervals to avoid kidney, eye and heart problems. ZP Chairperson Swati Rani, MLC Jagadish, and others were present.Services recalledSenior leaders of the Telugu Desam Party remembered their party founder N.T. Rama Rao by recalling his services.Under the auspices of Akhila Bharatha NTR Abhimanula Sangham, special meetings were organised here and party leaders garlanded the statue of NTR at Nartaki centre.Former Minister Somireddy Chandramohan Reddy and others were present.Mr. Chandramohan Reddy said that NTR had become dearer to the people because of his services.Mr. Ramesh Reddy, who was an ardent fan of NTR, said that it was because of N.T. Rama Rao’s commitment that the Telugu Ganga project was successfully implemented for the benefit of the people, particularly the down-trodden.