http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/BMTF-gets-fresh-lease-of-life-yet-again/article13984310.ece

The Bangalore Metropolitan Task Force (BMTF), which probes into land grabbing cases, has got a fresh lease of life. There are rumours that the State government, which initially refused to renew the task force’s term, has extended its life by another year.However, questions have been raised as to why BMTF has to depend on the dispensation of the day for its continuation annually. Twenty years after its formation, the task force is still dependent on the government for its existence, hampering several probes involving several politicians and the influential people, accused of land grab.Every time the term is up for renewal, officials in BMTF face anxious moments, which may end up in compromising the independence of the body, a former BMTF official said.A.T. Ramaswamy, who led a legislature committee on encroachment of public lands in Bengaluru, said, “The way BMTF has been kept on a leash by successive governments only shows their commitment in securing public land,” he said. Acknowledging the need to make BMTF a permanent body, V. Balasubramanian, who led a task force to secure public land in the State, said the State government should issue a Government Order putting out that the term of BMTF is extended till further orders. “BMTF is doing good work. The government has been sleeping on a special court to try land-grabbers for the past year now. That should speed up,” he said.While the existence of the BMTF is always in question, BMTF officials say that more legal teeth is required than a mere extension of its term. “Unlike the Lokayukta or the CBI probing corruption charges, the BMTF has no power to book a suo motu case, thereby restricting its work. There is a January 2015 High Court ruling stating that BMTF can only book cases under the Karnataka Land Revenue Act and not the IPC. The rules of mandate for BMTF need to be amended to give the force these powers,” a BMTF official said.