http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/BMTF-books-cases-against-15-firms-for-illegal-ads/article14000081.ece

The Bengaluru Metropolitan Task Force has filed criminal cases against 15 companies for putting up illegal advertisements in public places causing revenue loss to the BBMP.The companies include a nationalized bank, leading jewellers and an apparel store.Additional Director General of Police T. Sunil Kumar told presspersons that the FIR was filed against the companies based on the complaint filed by BBMP officials concerned under section 441, 436 of Karnataka Municipal Corporation Act and also under section 420 of Indian Penal code.According to Mr. Sunil Kumar the advertisers are supposed to advertise through a company authorized by the BBMP. However, these companies put up their advertisements on roadside poles, footpaths and at bus shelters, which not only amount to disfigurement of public places but also cause revenue loss to the BBMP, he said.“More cases are going to be registered as the BMTF officials along with the BBMP are conducting a survey to identify the illegal hoardings,” he said. Replying to a question about large hoardings and banners that have come up to wish Shanthinagar MLA N.A. Harris on the occasion of his 48th birthday in Shanti Nagar, Mr. Sunil Kumar said the BMTF cannot take initiate suo motu action due to legal hassles. He, however, promised to take up the case and investigate if the officials concerned approach them with a complaint. Meanwhile, representatives of the companies would be summoned for questioning to ascertain the nexus. The BBBMP officials concerned would also be booked if investigations proves their role, he said.In order to take all the cases to a logical end, the BMTF will approach the State government seeking a dedicated legal cell. ADGP Sunil Kumar said a proposal has been made to the District in-charge Minister Ramalinga Reddy and hopeful that it would be considered.The BMTF faces difficulty in following the cases and a dedicated cell would help deal with the cases effectively. “We have received assurance that BMTF would get a permanent stature instead of reviewing the body every time,” he said.