http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/BNHS-to-start-counting-Asian-Waterbird/article13984324.ece

Following the recently-held revived Salim Ali Bird Count, the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) is all set to conduct and coordinate yet another bird census, in association with Wetlands International. This annual activity called Asian Waterbird Count (AWC), is part of the global programme called ‘International Waterbird Census’ that focuses on monitoring the status of waterbirds and wetlands.The AWC aims to increase public awareness on issues related to wetland and waterbird conservation. The census is carried out each January as a voluntary activity. This year, AWC would be conducted in India from January 9 to 24, 2016.“With changing times and increasing anthropogenic pressure, monitoring of wetlands is essential. Initiatives like the AWC, at the national level, encourage mass participation and data generation,” said Dr. Deepak Apte, Director, BNHS. Apart from monitoring the condition of wetlands, the AWC aims at obtaining information about the waterbird population in wetlands during non-breeding season, as it forms a basis for evaluation of sites and monitoring of populations. It also promotes greater interest about conservation of waterbirds and wetlands amongst people. This is the 30 year of the AWC which spans over two weeks, however entries for volunteering will be accepted anytime during January. Earlier, AWC and collected information was submitted manually or by post. Now, the information can be emailed to Wetlands International on awc@wetlands.org and copied to BNHS on ibabhns@gmail.com. Enthusiastic bird watchers can also submit data through www.ebird.org, which is a real time online checklist programme. Forms for the counters are available on BNHS, IBCN and Wetlands International websites.“If any species of waterbird which is not listed on the count form has been observed, counters are required to give additional information on its identification in the ‘Comments’ section of the form,” said Atul Sathe, Assistant Director--Education & Communication, BNHS-India.