http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/Boat-service-launched-at-Somasila/article13995837.ece

The administration on Monday set the ball in motion to give a major boost to tourism by launching boating services at Somasila, in the backwaters of the River Krishna.Ministers - Ajmeera Chandulal (Tourism) and Jupally Krishna Rao (Industries) and a host of leaders, accompanied by Telangana State Tourism Development Corporation Chairman Pervaram Ramulu launched the service by going on a short cruise aboard ‘Someshwara’ , a new 80-seater, twin engine boat.Amidst the serene location facing the reservoir that falls in Kollapur Assembly constituency represented by Krishna Rao, he told presspersons that this was just a beginning of initiatives planned to boost a sector that is considered the second largest employment provider, both direct and indirect.Earlier, two hotel properties, with two rooms (one air-conditioned) and a 40-seater restaurant attached were inaugurated at Jetprole and here, overlooking the reservoir, built at a cost of Rs. 71.05 lakh and Rs. 57.23 lakh. Mr. Chandulal said Mr. Chandulal said tourism was being accorded priority and the progress of ongoing projects was being personally monitored by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao himself. The two properties he outlined, would also be of help during the Krishna Pushakarams, the once-in-12-years-event between August 12 and 23 this yearMr. Krishna Rao said the district that was the most backward was well on its way to shrugging off this tag, by leveraging among others, the tourism potential.Mr. Ramulu said the cruise at Somasila would soon firm the tail-end of the tourism circuit that started from Srisailam. He pointed out that Mahabubnagar district alone was sanctioned a whopping Rs. 98 crore worth of tourism projects by the Centre.Among others MP A.P. Jithender Reddy, MLC K. Narayana Reddy, MLA V. Srinivas Goud, with TSTDC Managing Director Christina Chongthu and Mahabubnagar Joint Collector M. Ramkishan were present.