http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/Bomb-threat-delays-Nepal-bound-flight/article14022049.ece

A Kathmandu-bound international flight on Monday afternoon was delayed for over five hours after a bomb threat call was received at the airport here.All 111 passengers, including the cabin crew, had to be offloaded from the flight at the Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA). The boarding had been closed by the time the call was made, said the police.The call was made just half an hour before the scheduled departure time and a search exercise which followed continued till 5.45 p.m., said the police.However, nothing was found inside the aircraft.Claiming that he had left a “gift” for Deputy Commissioner of Police (Airport) D.K. Gupta under row number 18 of the aircraft, the caller triggered an alarm and mobilised the whole security apparatus at the airport into action.“I received a call at 12.55 a.m. on my office landline. The caller said a gift for you is at seat no. 18 of the Jet Airways Flight 9W 260 going to Kathmandu and scheduled to leave at 1.25 p.m. Before disconnecting, he said Happy Independence Day,” said Mr. Gupta.He added that even though the airport office landline has a caller Id, no number was displayed on the screen.“I checked with the Airlines who confirmed that such a flight was to leave for Kathmandu at the time mentioned by the caller. The meeting of the bomb threat assessment committee was called and the airline was told to offload the passengers,” said Mr. Gupta.Those from the bomb disposal squad entered the flight which was taken to the isolation bay and indulged in a massive search exercise. The cabin luggage had also been loaded, which is why it took longer for the police to conduct the search. Around 5.45 p.m., the exercise was called off and the flight was declared safe.It later took off for its scheduled departure but not before the passengers spent anxious hours at the airport.“We apologise for the inconvenience caused to our guests. Security of our guests and crew is always our number one priority,” said Jet Airways in a statement.