http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Bond-sans-boundaries/article14016021.ece

“India has always been a mysterious land in the minds of Koreans. It has always fascinated them with their culture and art,” said Park Sohee, president of the artists group SEOMI, while commenting on a newly inaugurated exhibition Art Passion – “Korean Passion Meets India”.The exhibition – opening ceremony organised at Korean Cultural Centre in Lajpat Nagar recently – seeks to give Korean and Indian artists an opportunity to interact and promote creative partnership. It also wants to showcase to art lovers how to reflect upon life.With a total of 67 artists from both countries, the exchange exhibition is an amalgamation of varied paintings and art work. The participating artists feel a high degree of semblance between the art of the two countries exist. And the differences that exist are also very positive. A myriad of paintings are figurative with bright colours.Giving his take, Alok Uniyal said, “It is always good to work with artists from different cultural backgrounds. We get to know about the other media they are working with. We have come closer to the techniques they use. While some are working with the digital media, others choose to go the traditional way. There is so much we get to learn via such endeavours.” His work “After Party” is a portrait of two bandwallahs relaxing after a party.Kali Charan Gupta, who worked in Korea for six months in 2006, observed that some Korean artists have chosen to stick to their traditional art forms, which largely includes the use of black ink, but many have taken a liking for bright colours like their Indian counterparts.Nam Jung Ye, a follower of the Korean tradition of painting, opined that such exchange programmes inspire the artistic community. Tiger is a recurring motif in her painting, which symbolises positivity.Explaining her work “The Dreaming of Tiger”, she said, “In Korean tradition, the tiger is important as it prevents evil spirits and is associated with positivity. This is the reason that businessmen like to have tiger paintings at their workplace,” she said. The peony flower in the painting stood for wealth and the butterfly for long life.Two of Kali Charan’s works are product of mixed media. The acrylic paint, he explained, took three whole days to dry. And that is what gives it the desired cracks.The cracks were prominent at some places, had a certain structure and looked exceptionally beautiful.“Blue with Green”, a painting by Dhaneshwar Shah, is based on tribal concepts and aborigines. He felt that events such as these offer a platform for discussion, exchange of ideas and build peaceful bilateral relations. “While Indian art is more natural and human oriented, Korean art is abstract and therein lies its beauty,” said the artist.In one of his works, Kim Jong Chil, a calligraphy artist, has stitched together different fabrics with message-oriented inscriptions.He is fond of Indian art because of its purity and depth of meaning. “Indian art is very close to life,” he said. With outstanding compositions, profound but hidden significances, the exhibition organised by SEOMI in partnership with Korean Cultural Centre, India is on till February 12.