http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Booking-an-auto-just-got-easy-in-Mysuru/article14013273.ece

Now, one need not step out on the road, looking for an autorickshaw to commute to the destination in Namma Mysuru. Instead, you can book a ride on a mobile app and the autorickshaw will pick you up from your place.A Chandigarh-based technology company’s autorickshaw hailing app, Jugnoo, has begun operations in the city by enrolling about 150 autorickshaw drivers.Just like taxis are booked through mobile apps, autorickshaws in Mysuru can also be booked and requisitioned to your place for a ride through the ‘Jugnoo’ app.With the initial response being encouraging from commuters, the company is looking forward to add more autorickshaw drivers. After starting off in Mysuru in mid-November 2015, the app-based autorickshaw service was offering 150 rides per day by November end. “The number increased to 500 rides per day by December end. Presently, we are offering about 800 rides per day,” S.A. Shreeharsha, who heads Jugnoo’s operations in Mysuru, told The Hindu .Mysuru is the 22nd city, where the company is offering app-based autorickshaw hailing service in India. “Since we are an aggregator, we can offer a different fare structure,” he said. Against the minimum fare of Rs. 25 and Rs. 13 for every subsequent km charged by regular autos, Jugnoo collects a minimum fare of Rs. 20 and Rs. 5 for every km, but collects Rs. 1 for every minute of travel as convenience charge.While the commuters find the fare attractive, the autorickshaw drivers are not complaining either. “I may be paid less, but I am hired more now. Earlier, I used to find it difficult to get passengers. Now, I am busy ferrying passengers most of the time,” said B.T. Raju, an autorickshaw driver.“I was engaged for six rides between 6 a.m. and 10 a.m. today and earned Rs. 400,” said Mr. Raju, who also has the option of turning off Jugnoo’s driver app if he wishes to engage other customers.But, the another auto driver Shankar Narayan, who is often engaged for eight to 10 rides a day by Jugnoo, had issues with certain commuters booking the ride and disappearing without cancelling the same. “When we reach the spot, they are not to be found. They cite excuses like absence of Internet connectivity to cancel the booking,” he said.For Uma, a lecturer, who often commutes by autorickshaws, the free ride for the first time after the download and discounts on certain rides are also an attraction. “I have not had to wait for long after booking a ride. Within minutes of booking, the autorickshaw will be at my doorstep”, said Ms. Uma, who resides in T.K. Layout in the city.