http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/Borivali-most-busy-on-Western-line/article13982548.ece

Contrary to popular perception that stations such as Mumbai Central or Churchgate would be the busiest on the Western line, information obtained under the Right to Information (RTI) Act reveals that Borivali station is the most crowded with around 2.87 lakh passengers travelling from there daily.In a clear indication that city’s population is migrating more towards north and even the job centres have shifted, the data explain that the number of passengers at Dadar station are even less than those at Goregaon or Malad or at Kandivli.RTI activist Anil Galgali had sought information about the number of daily passengers from each of the 36 stations on the western line. With 84 rakes and 1,305 trips, the Western Railway carries around 35.08 lakh passengers every day. One train carries approximately 2,689 passengers.Mr. Galgali said compared to the number of passengers travelling every day on the western line, the number of trains was very less. “There is a need to increase it immediately to solve this problem. It will also reduce the chances of accidents,” he said.The Pravas Adhikar Andolan Samiti (PAAS), a mass movement working to increase amenities for train travellers, said the numbers proved that it was high time to fulfil a number of pending projects and increase amenities.“Apart from increasing the number of trains, several measures such as stopping Bandra trains and taking them till Borivali must be taken. The number of Virar-bound trains should be increased,” said Shailendra Kamble, convener of PAAS.The number of passengers descending on Borivali is much higher compared to other stations as a large number of commuters from adjoining stations come here to catch a train as it is impossible to board a local train from stations such as Dahisar, Kandivali or Malad. Renovation work currently under way at the station is only adding to the woes of passengers.Mr. Kamble said considering the growing number of passengers, pending projects such as elevated railway should be speeded up.“Elevated railway must start from Andheri to Virar, instead of Churchgate. It is because the real hardship starts after Andheri and people travelling further need more comfort,” he said.