http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Bowled-over-by-science/article14006983.ece

After having racked my brains on what questions to ask Dr. Carol Trager Cowan, a Ph.D, FRSE Department of Physics, at the University of Strathclyde, U.K., I weakly admitted that I was intimidated about the subject she loved so much.And, beautiful Carol, with salt and pepper frizzy hair that reminds you of Einstein, laughs and says, “Science should not be frightening. It’s all around you. Once you understand it, it allows you to enjoy the subject. Take this (she hands me a glass with plastic like filament) and look at the light. That’s a piece of a fraction film which splits up the colours and helps you see the colours of the rainbow. I get excited about science. I love the rainbow and with these glasses I can generate them by using any light source. .” In Bengaluru last week for a talk at MRDG Auditorium, IISC and Raman Research Institute, organised by the British Council as part of the Science & Beyond Series, she says that more scientists should help people get engaged with hands on science.“I am here to share my experiences and meet scientists who have taken science to thousands of people,” says CarolCarol, spoke on ‘Studying Structure and Light Emission in the Scanning Electron Microscope and Engaging the Public with Science and Technology – from statues to rainbows. She took to science because of an interest in knowing about how things work, solving puzzles and understand phenomena that she does not understand.To help children overcome fear of the subject, Carol says family and teachers should try hands on activities to get them interested.“Every one is inclined towards science as each one has a curious mind. We have to let that curiosity grow. When we share our love and excitement for the subject, I believe we are also creating the next generation of science lovers and scientists. Children should be allowed to do experiments for themselves and encouraged to ask questions. Science is something that everyone can get involved in. I encourage researchers to take their science to the public. They should know what we are doing and not get scared about the experiments, no matter how large or small it may be.”