http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/Boy-rescued-within-hours-of-his-abduction/article14003140.ece

A six-year-old boy who was kidnapped for ransom from East Delhi was recovered within hours from a UP Roadways bus passing through Aligarh district.The abductor turned out to be a former employee of the boy’s father. The accused Kuldeep had left behind a hand-written note demanding a ransom of Rs. 5 lakh.A senior investigator said that Kuldeep would have likely killed the boy after recovering the ransom amount as the two were well-known to each other. The rescued boy has been identified as Naitik Bansal, a resident of East Delhi’s Vinod Nagar. His father Anil runs a provision shop in the area.Kuldeep had been working at Anil’s shop and six weeks ago he had left for his home in UP’s Etah due to an illness. Around 1 p.m. on Friday, Kuldeep visited Anil’s home and asked Naitik to accompany him to the shop claiming that his father had summoned him.“Though my wife let Naitik accompany him, she rang me up to ask if Kuldeep had joined work again. I immediately realised that something was wrong and I downed the shop shutters to rush home,” Anil said.Police were informed soon and a few teams were constituted to recover the boy. Meanwhile, a letter was recovered outside the boy’s home in which the abductor said that Anil could collect his son from UP’s Etah district by paying a sum of Rs 5 lakh.The police team soon landed up at the Mandawali home of Kuldeep’s father. The old man was apparently unaware of his son’s plans.Since his father had no balance in his mobile phone, the police recharged his phone and him to call up Kuldeep. An unsuspecting Kuldeep revealed that he was headed to Etah by a UP Roadways bus.Kuldeep’s mobile phone number was placed under surveillance and four police vehicles, carrying also the boy’s family members, were dispatched to the possible route in UP the kidnapper would take.After searching dozens of buses and other vehicles, the boy was finally found under a blanket in a bus around 7 p.m on Friday. Kuldeep was immediately arrested and brought to Delhi.“The accused has revealed that he was under debt as his ancestral home had been mortgaged. Knowing the financial status of his former employer, Kuldeep had hoped to recover the ransom amount from him,” said BS Gurjar, DCP (East).