http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Vijayawada/Breathe-easy-being-regular-with-medicines-is-the-mantra/article14024563.ece

Inhalers have revolutionised Asthma treatment. Early diagnosis and the right line of treatment make a huge difference to patients. At the same time, asthma patients, who are not under proper treatment, run the risk of frequent attacks, often requiring hospitalisation. Faith Specialty Clinics managing director and pulmonologist Anil Kancherla says asthma, being a chronic illness, requires prolonged treatment. In most cases, patients feel better after using inhaler (inhaler is a hand-held portable device that deliver medication to lungs). “Discontinuing treatment could be dangerous,” warns Dr. Anil. “What patients should realise is that it is medication that keeps them healthy. Naturally, one falls sick once medication is discontinued,” he says.Inhalers offer quicker relief than tablets or syrup, as the medication goes straight into the tissue where it is required. Incidentally, medication by means of tablets takes time for relief, and the quantity of medicines taken is more unlike inhalers, which dispense drug in micrograms as against milligrams in the case of tablets.“It has been found that adherence to medication is very poor among most asthma patients, and the rate of non-compliance has been found to be around 70 per cent,” says Dr. Anil.There are several reasons for patients not being regular with use of inhalers. Besides the cost of medication, there are issues such as misconceptions about side-effects and social stigma. “There are patients who develop psychological barriers, leaving them dissatisfied with health care professionals. More often than not, anger at one’s own condition, underestimation of the severity of the condition and other psychological issues make patients discontinue treatment, thereby putting themselves in danger,” he adds.Inhalers dispense two types of medication – reliever and controller. A reliever offers relief from asthma attack, while controller prevents it from reoccurring. “Most controllers are steroids and should not be discontinued. If they are suddenly stopped, the disease will ‘rebound’. It is essential to use an inhaler under the guidance of a pulmonologist,” Dr. Anil said.