http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Breathing-new-life-into-Gayathripuzha/article13976523.ece

In a last-ditch attempt to save the Bharathapuzha’s main feeder, the Gayathripuzha, from an imminent death, the Kerala State Land Use Board (KSLUB) has prepared a comprehensive database using computerised Geographic Information System (GIS) on the entire natural resources available in and around the river basin to augment conservation efforts to be launched by the State government in association with local bodies soon.The database involves even minute details of all the hills, hillocks, wells, canals, reservoirs, tanks, streams, and biodiversity available in 29 grama panchayats coming under the Gayathripuzha river basin. It would help detect even minor encroachments and plundering of the resources by real estate and sand-mining mafias.The database is a prelude to the conservation efforts to be initiated by the board with help of the Revenue, Forest, Irrigation and Agriculture Departments along with local bodies coming under Alathur, Nenmara, Kuzhalmandam and Kollangode development blocks.Participatory stepsAccording to board commissioner A. Nizamuddin, the database was prepared in recent months by board officials through grassroots level participatory initiatives with involvement of local communities.“Apart from recharging the dying river, it would help preserve available water resources in the rain shadow region. Most areas coming under these development blocks lack enough drinking water,” he said.Large-scale deforestation in its origins apart from adverse changes in land-use patterns on its banks has almost killed the Gayathripuzha, a perennial source of drinking water for a vast portion of Palakkad district. Studies conducted by board regional assistant director R. Rugmini and agricultural officer V. Bindu found 13 among the 28 watershed areas of the river basin as extremely damaged and their revitalisation quite impossible.Under threatThe Ayalurpuzha, Vandalipuzha, Meenkarapuzha and the Chulliyar are also facing imminent death due to severe changes in land-use pattern. Water level in the Mangalam, Pothundi, Chulliyar and Meenkara dams is also receding as a result of the decreasing flow in the river.Illegal quarries in areas such as Muthalamada and Kizhakkanchery are badly affecting the sustenance of the river. Rubber plantations in areas such as Pittakkari Kulambu also prevent groundwater discharge and the replenishing process. Traditional drains which carried rainwater to the river have been blocked at many parts of the region following reclamation of paddy fields for non-agricultural needs. Building mafias are also adding to the grim situation.Deforestation, change in land-use patterns pose threat to riverIllegal quarries, land reclamation other issues