http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Thiruvananthapuram/British-owned-lands-sans-titles-to-be-resumed/article13978336.ece

The Revenue Department has appointed Ernakulam District Collector M.G. Rajamanickam as Special Officer to identify all land holdings of British citizens and companies in Kerala prior to independence and to verify ownership of lands post-independence in terms of any title conferred on the landholders by the State government.If no title has been conferred on the present occupies of the lands in question by the State of Kerala or the Central government, action would be taken to resume the land illegally possessed by such persons. Mr. Rajamanickam’s first task would be to resume land currently being held by Travancore Rubber and Tea Company and their associate companies and transferees and persons now in occupation of such lands, an order issued by the Revenue Department December 30 said.Panel orderThe government order has been issued in response to an order issued by the Kerala State Human Rights Commission while disposing of petitions filed by two persons — George Vattukulam, president, Malayala Vedi, and Soman Vadakkekkara — on September 7. An investigation conducted by Inspector General of Police (Crime) S. Sreejith, who was at the time the commission’s principal investigation officer, had revealed that over 5,000 acres of land were in the illegal possession of individuals and companies. Commissioner R. Natarajan, who has since retired, had proposed use of such resumed land for distribution to the landless.Mr. Naratajan had directed the State Police Chief to direct officers under him to take action under the Land Conservancy Act against illegal occupiers of government land and officers who had assisted them in making false records and documents.The commission had sought a report from the government on the action taken on its order within one month. Mr. Rajamanickam had earlier been appointed Special Officer for resuming government lands from Harrison Malayalam Limited (HML).