http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Vijayawada/British-global-school-coming-up-in-Vizag/article13993883.ece

A world-class British Global School is coming up at Adavivaram in Visakhapatnam with an expenditure of Rs. 90 core.The school will be set up in 15 acres of Endowments (Simhachalam temple) land with a built-up area of 20 lakh sft. Works on the project will commence within a week and admissions process may start in next two years.This is the first project being undertaken in the Public Private Partnership (PPP) mode in the State. The school is being developed by the Priyadarshini Group of Educational Institutions, in association with the Anglo Schools International Services (ASIS), London, UK.Principal partner of ASIS, David Boddy, along with his Indian colleague Rajeev Tandon, has met Vice-Chairman and Managing Director of the Infrastructure Corporation of Andhra Pradesh Limited (INCAP) Sambasiva Rao in Hyderabad and briefed him about the proposed technical association and the concept of the global British school. The INCAP was assigned the task of selecting the developers with global tie-ups through bidding as part of the government’s ‘social infrastructure development’ programme.Speaking to The Hindu on telephone, Mr. Boddy said: “We have agreed to partner with the Priyadarshini Education Group to help develop the school on this site (Visakhapatnam) and we are looking that the works commence within a week. It is too early to say as to when the first enrolment will be undertaken, but we will try to make it happen in either 2017 or 2018.”He said the international school would be recognised by the British Schools Overseas Inspection regime.“A fully international school connected with the British education system emerging in this exciting part of India is certainly a major development,” he said.On Saturday, an ASIS team, accompanied by Sohini Basu and Ridhima Peravali, officials of UK Trade and Investment and British Deputy High Commission respectively, international school expert G. S. Madhava Rao and secretary of Priyadarshini Education Society M. Krishna Rao, visited the proposed site in Visakhapatnam.The proposed school envisages a capacity of 2,000 students. The classes will include grades from nursery to 12{+t}{+h}standard.The syllabi shall be either International Baccalaureate (IB) or International General Certificate Council for Secondary Education (IGCSE), along with the option of CBSE/ICBSE or ICSE/CISCE or any other international, national or Andhra Pradesh State Board Certification.The curriculum will include ‘Gurukul’ pattern with yoga, medication, Indian classical art forms and cultural heritage in tune with the RFP specifications.Other proposed facilities include games and sports infrastructure, extra curricular activities, skill development clubs, canteen and dining facilities for day scholars, besides residential accommodation for both students and teachers.Project details15 acres of Simhachalam temple land earmarked for the Rs. 90-cr. projectThe school to have recognition of British SchoolsOverseas Inspection regimeWith capacity of 2,000 students, classes to include grades from nursery to12{+t}{+h}standardGurukul pattern curriculum to have yoga, medication, Indian classical art forms and cultural heritageSyllabi shall be either International Baccalaureate (IB) or International GeneralCertificate Council for Secondary Education (IGCSE), along with the options of CBSE/ICBSE or ICSE/CISCE or any other international, national or AP State Board Certification15 acres belonging to Simhachalam temple have been earmarked for the Rs. 90- cr. project