http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/BRT-demolition-begins-amid-cheers/article14011069.ece

s deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia made the first dent on the concrete slab with a big hammer on the divider of the Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) corridor, locals around him cheered. Dismantling of the 5.8km corridor from Ambedkar Nagar to Moolchand on Tuesday was probably the first event in Delhi where people celebrated a demolition. People on their two-wheelers stopped to witness the demolition of the dividers as they didn’t want to miss the event. “January 19 will go down in the history of Delhi. BRT corridor was every commuter’s nightmare,” said Rajiv Kakaria of GK-I RWA.Explaining how badly the BRT corridor affected GK-I residents, Mr Kakaria said “just people living in east Delhi are generally referred as ‘Jamana Par’, people of GK-I are called ‘BRT par’.” The infamous BRT corridor, which seemed promising on papers but turned out to be failure in reality, will be converted into a conventional road in three months.An event was organized to mark the beginning of the dismantling of the corridor. Mr Sisodia said “It is amazing to see people celebrating demolition of public infrastructure. This just shows how ill-planned the BRT corridor was.”However, for the residents of GK-I,II, Lajpat Nagar, Chirag Delhi and other adjoining areas, BRT corridor was not only a traffic nightmare but also an election issue. Even the Congress party, during whose rule the BRT corridor was conceived and constructed, promised to scrap the corridor before the 2015 Delhi polls. But on Tuesday as the AAP government did so, former chief minister, Sheila Dikshit, said “demolishing the existing infrastructure is not a good move. It would’ve been better had the government thought of improvisation methods. It is waste of public money.”The corridor that came up at a cost of Rs 190 crore will be demolished for Rs 10 crore. Mr Sisodia putting the blame squarely on Sheila Dikshit’s government said that Congress did a ‘copy and paste job’. “BRT as a concept isn’t bad but it was ill-planned. In foreign countries it might be working, but the Congress government simply copied it. They forgot ‘Nakal ko akal zaroorat hoti hai.”It was in July 2015, four months after AAP came to power in Delhi, Mr Sisodia had announced that the government had given in-principle approval to scrapping the BRT corridor. In March 2015, five MLAs from the assembly constituencies directly affected by corridor between Ambedkar Nagar and Moolchand had written to Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, urging him to expedite the process of scrapping the corridor.