http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/news/BSE-set-to-open-doors-for-tourists/article14005888.ece

he country’s financial capital will now give a glimpse of the frenetic world of trading to outsiders, as it gets set to open the doors of the Bombay Stock Exchange to tourists. The BSE will be opened over the next fortnight, before the ‘Make in India’ week begins in February.The state government is currently in the process of drawing up a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to be signed with the management of BSE, which will facilitate daily guided tours inside the building.“This will be the first time that tourists will be able to observe the functioning of BSE from inside. They can witness how trading is done inside, how money is made and get training of these financial activities,” said Parag Jain, MD, Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC).The proposal for the same was cleared on Monday in a meeting of the board of directors of the MTDC, held under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis. Mr. Jain said that the management of BSE too had liked the idea, after which a small study on how to transform this into reality was carried out. “The MoU should be ready within the next 15-20 days and will be signed. The BSE has agreed to provide guides for the tour as it will require technical knowledge of the functioning of the stock exchange,” he said.While the MTDC will be executing the project, the state government aims to launch it before the ‘Make in India’ week in Mumbai in February. “Foreign tourists and even those from India will be exposed to the financial strength of the country through this,” said a senior government official.Apart from opening BSE for tourists, the state government has also decided to speed up the long-pending project of launching seaplanes between Juhu Chowpatty and Girgaum Chowpatty. According to government officers, this too will begin by the first week of February. Mumbai Port Trust has extended permission for the project on certain terms and conditions. The state will acquire land next to the Water Sports Centre at Girgaum Chowpatty to ensure basic services for tourists who will be using the service.“There were several hiccups in the past. But now we have sorted out all the problems and should be able to launch the service by February,” said Mr. Jain.To reaffirm the identity of words such as ‘MTDC’ and ‘Maharashtra Unlimited,’ which are used to promote State tourism, the department has decided to register them with the government’s trademark department. Along with these two words, the state will also be registering the much publicised ‘Deccan Odyssey’ and its logo.