http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/Building-Little-India/article13980828.ece

Kamesh Venkat, 27, has spent most of his career working for software company Oracle in Hyderabad. While he worked hard to reach the position of team head, he followed his other passion is his spare time, collaborating with some friends to form bloodconnect.org.The portal helps facilitate blood transfers to those who need it across four states and now has over a 100 people working for it. There was one thing Venkat wasn’t sure of though: while it was easy enough to build a network across four urban centres, how could one take that level of enterprise to smaller villages and towns across the country?To find the answers to this question and to discover several others, Venkat is on a 15-day journey through the four corners of India as part of a train ride called the Jagriti Yatra. It’s a journey that has been undertaken since 2008 and the concept is simple – 450 young people are chosen among thousands of applicants across the country through a written exam.For 15 days, the chosen ones make the train their home. Starting from Mumbai, they will traverse a circular route through India to meet 'role model' entrepreneurs.The 'yatris' are aged between 20 and 27 years and each of them approaches the journey with a different question. For 25 year-old Punit Jain, an engineer from Gujarat for instance, it’s about how to create a start up that would supply affordable medical equipment to small town hospitals. He used to have a start up that worked on something similar in college but had to give it up.For 25-year-old Brijesh Prasad, the aim is to find an area of focus having spent several years volunteering for various not-for-profit organistions in sectors like health, education and animal care. At the other end of the spectrum, 20-year-old Shreya from Lady Shriram College in Delhi hopes to get into politics. She wants to use the journey to expand her network and understand the issues that plague far-flung areas in the country.‘Middle India’Who are the role models that these yatris will meet? They range from a company that is building innovative solutions for renewable energy in rural Karnataka to a world class eye care hospital in Madurai. From an NGO that works on education, skill development and women empowerment in Rajasthan to the Art of Living Centre in Bengaluru. Not all of them are social entrepreneurs necessarily, but they are leaders in building institutions whose networks run wide. And the central idea of the Jagriti Yatra, in essence, is to encourage and motivate these 450 young people to start something new and to use that idea to build India from the ground up.To locate it more precisely, it is about building entrepreneurship in 'middle India'. According to Shashank Mani Tripathi, 49, founder of the Jagriti Yatra, middle India comprises about 54 tier-II districts and 164 tier-III districts that house over 50 per cent of the country’s population. “While travelling to these towns and districts we found that there is not much entrepreneurship here and we wanted to encourage this,” he said. “The people we select for the journey are mostly from these districts and we want to encourage them to be job creators, to develop these regions through enterprise,” he added. Among the 450 yatris, there are also a handful who come from abroad.Startups are a buzzword even in central policy and the central government is expected to outline details of the 'Start Up India, Stand Up India' policy that aims to encourage entrepreneurship among economically weaker sections. Programmes like the Jagriti Yatra offer a practical guidemap to how that might be possible.There is a 20-year timeline, in which Mr Tripathi hopes the yatra will bring about change. “We are at a stage in history where over 50 per cent of India’s population is young and after 20 years that will change. The time to invest in the potential of youth to build up India is therefore a small window,” he said.Connecting peopleThe genesis of the yatra goes back to 1997 when Mr Tripathi, then a London-based consultant with PwC, embarked on a similar train journey in 1997 to commemorate 50 years of India’s independence. He raised funds to travel across India on a train with 200 people and their purpose was to meet individuals who were building new enterprises. “Back then nobody really believed in the potential of India away from the big cities. It was too poor, too complicated, too mysterious,” he explained.Nevertheless, he penned the experiences from that journey into a book called ‘India: A Journey Through a Healing Civlisation’, published by Harper Collins in 2007. When people read it, he said, many of them started approaching him and offered support to start a similar journey. And so the first Jagriti Yatra, in its current form, started in 2008.“Many of the people who originally supported it were yatris from the original trip and some relocated to Mumbai where I was working to help start the yatra. There is a strong Mumbai and Pune connect running through the entire enterprise,” said Mr Tripathi. The venture, he added, would not have been possible without the enterprising spirit of Mumbai wedded with the 'nation building' culture of Pune. Several yatris, both past and present, come from these cities.For the first three years, it was funded by the Tata Group but these days funding is more broad based. This year’s journey is supported by Coca Cola and the Ministry of Skill Development among others.In the years following 2008, the aims and objectives of the yatra went through a subtle change as the team worked at crafting the exact nature of the interaction between yatris and role models. The purpose is not just to take them for field visits to admire the work of the entrepreneurs they meet but also to have them critique their models. To ask for instance, why they haven’t expanded their business beyond a certain state or what aspects of the model can be replicated.“In the initial three years, the message of the yatra was awakening the spirt of enterprise. It has now moved to building India through enterprise as we want the participants to take something from these visits and start something of their own,” said Heena Jeethanandani, a former yatri who now works for it full-time as part of the core team.Between 2008 and 2012, around 2,000 people have taken the journey and nearly 300 have started their own ventures in various sectors. Some of these stories are deeply inspiring. Take for example Amit Kataria, founder of ROSE (Rural Organisation for Social Empowerment), who took the yatra in 2009. He used to run a small computer academy in Gurgaon and took the 15-day journey despite being paralysed from the waist down. After the journey, he expanded into other villages. He now runs five academies and trains 5,000 people. Similarly, entrepreneur Smriti Nagpal, 23, also used the opportunity to expand her network across India. Her startup, Atulyakala, gives deaf-mute artists a platform to showcase their talent. She was recently nominated by the BBC as one of the world’s most inspiring women.These are the trailblazers for the current group and the models to emulate. “Each one of us can contribute to nation-building in a small way and the yatra is testament to that. It doesn't have to be left to a bureaucrat or the government,” said Mr Tripathi.