http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Bull-taming-event-closer-home-goes-on-unchecked/article13996272.ece

The controversial bull sport of Jallikattu in Tamil Nadu is on hold for now with the Supreme Court on Tuesday issuing an interim stay on it. Closer home, a bull-taming event prevalent in Shivamogga and Haveri districts, known as ‘Hori Bedarisuva Spardhe’ (meaning “bull scaring event”), has been going on unchecked for a long time and is now a big money-spinner.The sport, prevalent during the harvest season, shows scant regard for the safety of the participating humans and animals. Unlike Jallikattu and Kambala (involving buffaloes in coastal Karnataka region), there is no serious efforts to regulate ‘Hori Spardhe’ in any way.Casualties galoreLess than a month ago, on December 20, 2015, Chandrashekhar Acharya, a farmer from Honnali taluk died of heart attack following a stampede at a bull-taming event near Hirekerur in Haveri district.In November 2014, two youths were killed when they were gored by a bull at an event held in Haramaghatta village in Shivamogga taluk. Three persons were badly injured in a similar incident in Ayanur village in November, 2015. Many other minor events have gone unreported.Bulls of Hallikar and Amruthmahal breeds are brought for ‘Hori Bedarisuva Spardhe’ and decked-up. They are made to run around the ring as the people gathered raise slogans. The one who succeeds in stopping and taming the bull is declared the winner. Those who manage to snatch the garland of copras put around the neck of the bull are also offered consolation prices. The owners of bulls that reach the goal post are also honoured.Nandish Churchigundi, a farmer from Shikaripur, told The Hindu that earlier bull-taming events, considered as a part of tradition, were held on Deepavali with the participation of local farmers. He underscored the need to regulate the event. “The Kambala is being held under strict legal monitoring in coastal Karnataka. It is necessary to evolve a similar legal monitoring mechanism to conduct bull-taming events to ensure the safety of the participants,” he said.At present, more than 250 events are being held every year in Shivamogga district alone. It is necessary to enforce a ceiling on the number of events to ensure better monitoring, he added.Guidelines soonDeputy Commissioner of Shivamogga, V.P. Ikkeri, has said that the district administration would soon draw up strict guidelines for the conduct of bull-taming events. Taking prior permission from the police and local gram panchayat, arranging fodder and drinking water for the cattle, and taking safety precautions would be made mandatory, he said. “It is being proposed that these events will be videographed in the future,” he said.****MNCs cash in on eventVeerendra P.M.Shivamogga: The bull-taming events of Shivamogga and Haveri districts, which were once held locally and in a traditional way to mark festivals and the harvest season, have now acquired a distinctly commercial colour with multinational companies sponsoring them to promote their products.The sponsors offer prices like gold jewellery, bikes, and smartphones for the winners because of which the events draw participants from far places. The animals are brought on multi-utility vehicles.Around the event, there are multiple other activities too. A farmer said that apart from collecting an entry fee, the right to sell liquor on the day of the event is auctioned by the organisers. “In addition to this, huge amounts of money changes hands in the form of betting,” he said.****Names filmy styleVeerendra P.M.Shivamogga: The ‘Hori Spardhe’ is held in highly charged environments where masculinity and violence is celebrated. The bulls are named after popular Kannada action cinemas Bellary Naga, Mylari, Jogi, Hatavadi, Bhajarangi, Raja Huli, Rathavara and so on.