http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Kochi/Bund-road-push-to-ease-traffic-woes/article13984428.ece

The Minister for Civil Supplies, Anoop Jacob, on Monday, asked the Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) officials to take steps to provide 23.39 cents of land against the 13 cents offered by the company for construction of the Bund road from Mamala, near Thiruvamkulam to Chithrapuzha, along the Chitrapuzha river.He also asked the BPCL-Kochi Refinery to enhance the Corporate Social Responsibility Fund from R. 30 lakhs to Rs. 72 lakhstowards construction of the road that had been a non-starter even after the Tripunithura Municipality awarded the contract back in 2014 for dredging the river for starting construction.There were no takers for the contract as the amount of Rs. 30 lakh was found to be too low for the work.The mud from dredging will be used in the construction of the road of a total length of 2.4 kilometres.Chairing the meeting called for developing the road, Mr. Jacob asked the Kerala State Construction Corporation to provide a detailed study report on the project.He said that since Hindustan Organic Chemical, IOC and BPCL are the major beneficiaries of the road, their contribution is expected towards development of the road by providing land and financial support towards the project.Mr. Jacob said that all details for the project would be reviewed at a meeting towards the end of the month to make arrangements for calling a tender by middle of February.In January 2014, the government had appointed the Construction Corporation as the nodal agency for construction of the Bund road with an estimate of Rs.15 crore.KR had also evinced interest in laying a gas pipeline in the middle of the road with a royalty of Rs. 1.5 crore.The Bund road is expected to provide a crucial connecting link for vehicular traffic from the eastern side of Tripunithura to reach the Seaport-Airport Road. Tripunithura Municipal chairperson Chandrika Devi, former chairman of the Municipality R. Venugopal, Thilothama Suresh, councillor, officials from BPCL-KR, IOC, PWD and NH were among those who participated in the meeting. For decongesting the roads in Tripunithura, the junctions at Thiruvamkulam and Karingachira have been widened and also laid with interlocking tiles. The Puthiya Road junction at Irimpanam on Seaport-Airport Road had also been widened in the first phase of the project at a cost of Rs. 1.2 crore.