http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/kozhikode/Burnt-body-of-man-identified/article13977728.ece

The body of a man with a burnt face, which was discovered at Kinaloor Estate at Balussery near here on December 21, has been identified as that of 44-year-old Rajan, a daily wage earner of Narikunni.Four persons, including Rajan’s 31-year-old wife Sheeba and 27-year-old nephew Libin have been arrested, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Thamarassery, R. Sreekumar said on Saturday.According to the police, Rajan was allegedly murdered by his older brother’s son Libin and his associates Vipin (22) and Sadanandan (43) on the night of December 20, and his face was burnt in order to prevent identification.Inquiries revealed that Libin and Rajan’s wife Sheeba were into an illicit relationship and that Rajan was an alcoholic who constantly harassed his wife. This had led to altercations between Rajan and Libin.Libin, a mason, was living in Rajan’s house and was meeting the expenses of running his uncle’s family. A few days before the murder, Rajan and Libin had an argument over the affair.On December 20, Libin, Vipin and Sadanandan engaged a car and invited Rajan to go with them for a function and a party. When they reached Thalayad while returning home in the evening, they took him to a toddy shop. Libin mixed insecticide in the drink ordered for Rajan. The latter refused it, saying he did not like toddy.But, Libin had other options ready on hand.They went to a beverage shop and bought a bottle of liquor.As Rajan and the others drank, sitting near a stream, Libin took out a packet of chilli powder and threw it into his eyes. He then took out a hammer and hit Rajan in the head.A bleeding Rajan was then put into the car and taken away.He was then strangulated with a rubber tube. At Kinaloor Estate, the body was offloaded, petrol poured on the face and then set afire.“This was a tough case to crack, as the face was burnt completely,” Mr. Sreekumar said.“And, the murder was planned well, as evident from the insecticide, the chilli powder, the hammer and the petrol that were ready for use. New SIM cards and mobile phones were also purchased so that these could be dumped after the murder.”The first possibility of cracking the murder came in the form of a man missing case Sheeba had lodged with the police.After the body was discovered, she identified her husband from the shirt and trousers on the body and a black mark on Rajan’s thigh.Tracing of calls and inquiries in the neighbourhood revealed something was wrong within Rajan’s house.Further probe led to the discovery of the illicit relationship.Two days after the murder, Libin and the others had revealed it to Sheeba. But, she did not tell the police.