http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/Businessman%E2%80%99s-%E2%80%98false%E2%80%99-complaint-boomerangs-lands-him-behind-bars/article13990938.ece

Leela Kumar, one of the owners of noted cloth store Kalaniketan, and his wife landed themselves behind the bars on Saturday, after his complaint that some persons cheated him financially boomeranged.The Hyderabad Central Crime Station sleuths arrested Kumar and his wife, Sharada, stating that the complaint lodged by him a few months ago alleging that some persons, including his brothers, abducted him and cheated him turned out to be false. A retired bank employee, A.V.N. Reddy, was among the persons charged by the businessman of cheating him.“Investigation confirmed that Kumar secured loan amounts of over Rs. 3 crore from Mr. Reddy. He promised to give a share in his business empire but could neither return the money nor give the share as promised,” CCS Additional DCP Vijayender Reddy said. As Mr. Reddy insisted that his money be returned, Kumar gave him some bank cheques.The same got bounced when he presented them in the banks. “After giving the cheques, Kumar went to the bank concerned and told the officials not to honour the cheques he gave. This proved he had intention to cheat,” the Additional DCP said.According to the investigators, Kumar lodged a complaint with the CCS officials a few months ago charging that A.V.N. Reddy, his brothers, and others abducted him and made him sign some documents relating to financial matters. The CCS officials, during their preliminary inquiry, couldn’t find any evidence and Kumar’s contention on some points appeared to be contradictory.Meanwhile, he moved the High Court seeking registration of criminal case as per his complaint lodged with the CCS. The investigators complied with the court direction and registered the case. As part of the investigation, they summoned A.V.N. Reddy and grilled him.Refuting the charges levelled by Kumar, Mr. Reddy argued that, in fact, the former had cheated him and presented the Memorandum of Understanding about the financial transaction he had with Kumar and Sharada. Inquiries with the bank officials confirmed that the businessman presented cheques and later requested them not to clear the same.Investigators said Kumar had lodged complaints against some others from whom he secured loans. Police sources said he was in a financial mess since some time.A video showing Kumar requesting some persons to give him some time to clear his loans circulated in social media groups a few months ago.Investigators said they were not sure about the veracity of the video clip.