http://www.thehindu.com/books/literary-review/Busting-ideological-clich%C3%A9s/article14015993.ece

“Economics affects our lives but economists frustrate us. We want to know about the big issues of our times. But economists speak in a language that few of us understand”. For readers with such thoughts, this book is a godsend. It is a compilation of various pithy and insightful articles published over the last ten years as op-eds, blogs and short essays by an eminent development economist and an astute observer of Indian and Chinese societies. They are easy to read and enlightening. Every one of these articles is about an issue of general interest to Indian readers: globalisation, capitalism, inequality and poverty, democracy, corruption, Indian polity and economy, and India-China – a comparative perspective. Ashok KotwalAs far as this reviewer is concerned, the biggest contribution of this set of articles is the way it explodes ideological clichés. Those on the Left believe that globalisation and open markets can only hurt the poor, while those on the Right believe the opposite. The author illustrates with concrete examples how the truth is far more nuanced. He does the same with other much talked-about topics such as corruption. Did economic liberalisation in India increase corruption or reduce it from the level it had reached during the Licence Raj? The author lays out the causative process that gives rise to corruption under each kind of regime so that we have a nuanced understanding of the phenomenon of corruption. In the section on ‘Inequality and Poverty’, the author explains how economic and political inequalities reinforce one another. The advice to egalitarian movements is “to broaden their focus to include electoral reform, better financial regulation, transparent privatisation, and, above all, an overhaul of the educational system”. A common affliction among both — those on the Left and on the Right — is that they have a knee-jerk reaction to phrases like ‘market-based solution’ or ‘poverty alleviation scheme’. To the Left, ‘market’ and ‘globalisation’ can only benefit the rich, and to the Right ‘poverty alleviation’ sounds like a redistributive measure that can only stifle growth. This sort of muddled thinking has lowered the quality of public debate in India. Market-based solutions can help the poor while seemingly redistributive measures such as channelling the tax revenues into public education and health can help build a productive labour force spurring growth. Research in development economics has borne this out quite conclusively. This book does yeomen service by explaining these arguments in simple language that helps us to understand the ‘why’ and the ‘how’.The author is clearly Left-leaning, given the importance he places on the reduction of poverty and inequality. Yet, being a good economist, he displays a reasoned and pragmatic approach to policies. He exemplifies the fact that one’s political leanings are dictated by one’s value system. The means to achieve that should be pragmatic and based on economic logic. It raises the question why political parties do not adopt a similar approach. Time and again, the Left gets criticised for being utopian or for their naiveté in economics. There is much to learn from this book for both sides of the divide.One of the most interesting parts of the book is the comparative perspective the author brings to issues such as governance and corruption in India and China, respectively. The author has previously published a whole book on this comparison. China is the only country that can be compared to India in population as well as the enormity of the challenges it faces. Yet, it is a one-party regime while India is a multiparty democracy. The governance structures are very different. As a democracy, one would expect that the Indian system would be more responsive to the demands for government services in health and education while the soft Indian democracy would have greater corruption. The facts don’t bear this out.In fact, China has performed admirably in terms of taking healthcare to most of its population but is also burdened with widespread corruption. The author gives us good insight into how the differences in the systems of governance in the two countries give rise to different outcomes.Despite the fact that the book is a compilation of articles written about different topics at different times, it holds together and makes for a good read. It has substantive and compelling arguments that could change the way you think.Ashok Kotwal is Professor of Economics, University of British Columbia, Vancouver.