http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/By-the-beach/article14022774.ece

Music and peace of mind – if that’s an experience that any music festival wants to capture, Alibaug’s Nariyal Paani come close. The second edition of the music festival expanded to a two-day edition this year, with camping grounds, while retaining the stage by the beach near Morapada village in Maharashtra.Unlike most other big-ticket festivals, Nariyal Paani promises as much relaxation as it does partying. The line-up of artists this year included mellow singer-songwriters like fusion act Zoya as well as dance floor-friendly reggae/rock bands such as The Ska Vengers from Delhi and French band Jahneration.Located quite deep inside Morapada village, the signage of a white flag bearing the festival logo guided attendees to the shore. Well, nearly so. Held at what looked like a beach house bungalow with a massive front yard that overlooked the beach, Nariyal Paani’s crowd were equally drawn to three things – the bar and food counters (of course), the stone-loaded barrier to the beach and the stage area, which had enough coconut trees and mats to keep one comfortable.Interestingly Morapada turned out to be equidistant to the Mandwa Jetty, where the ferry from Mumbai’s Gateway of India anchored, as it was to Alibaug city. By the time we made it to the festival on day one, Bengaluru trip hop/jazz rock band Blushing Satellite were on stage, dreaming up smooth music. Delhi band Begum seemed to add to that lazy sound, but it almost worked too well, prompting some to nod off in the afternoon shade. The tempos quickly changed on and off after that, with world/fusion project Achint from Mumbai traversing bouncier energetic material, while Berklee graduate Zoya Mohan was much more emotional and calming.Kolkata rapper Vik ‘Feyago’ Sen and UK beatboxer Bellatrix turned it up a notch once again, with covers and freestyling that kept the crowd on its feet. And the 300-odd people stayed put after that – with some trippy, diverse reggae, rap, dub and psychedelic rock from Jahneration, followed by the enlightening, no-holds-barred politically conscious music of The Ska Vengers from Delhi.On day two, the afternoon sun was a little less kind, but people were prepped for a dance and music workshop/performance by Brazilian group Mavambo to stay intrigued. Delhi singer-songwriter Prateek Kuhad, a charmer by now thanks to his 2015 album In Tokens and Charms, stuck to new material in Hindi and English that built audience attention. While Mumbai’s pop band Sharma and the Besharams – led by singer Vasuda Sharma – faced a few delays due to technical difficulties, Nicholson flowed through flawlessly with drummer Rohan Ramanna, telling tales of angst and heartbreak like ‘Cold Water’, ‘For What’ and a cover of Lana Del Rey’s ‘Video Games’.While Ranjit and the Ambassadors had a similar hit-or-miss experience with freestyling and improvising like rapper Feyago the previous day, the ultimate set came from Laxmi Bomb, who might have wrapped up while the sun was still shining, but progressed from the happy early material like ‘Reggae Rasiya’ featuring accordion player Mynah Marie to playing real pumped up electronic music that turned the festival into one big dance floor.For those who weren’t in a hurry to catch the last ferry back to Mumbai, there was an all-star jam featuring festival artistes – just to showcase exactly how laidback things can get once a formal festival with all its schedules and slots are done with. Truly, Nariyal Paani felt like it had two sides – one for all the music lovers who wanted another festival to check out and another for anyone who just wanted to hear any kind of music by the beach. If you were to ask us, the festival has probably satisfied both types of audiences.