http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Byrathi-Suresh-is-Congress-favourite-for-Hebbal-segment/article14015768.ece

With several leaders, including MLCs, of the ruling Congress vying for ticket to contest the byelection from the Hebbal Assembly constituency in the city, Independent MLC Byrathi Suresh, a close confidant of Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, has emerged as the favourite choice of the party.The Congress screening committee for the constituency, headed by Bengaluru Development Minister K.J. George, sources said, had also recommended fielding Mr. Suresh.AICC general secretary in charge of Karnataka Digvijaya Singh, who arrived here on Thursday, held consultations with State leaders, including Mr. Siddaramaiah and KPCC president and Home Minister G. Parameshwara, to finalise the names of candidates for the three Assembly constituencies where byelections will be held on February 13.With Mr. Siddaramaiah supporting the candidature of Mr. Suresh (both of them belong to Kuruba community), Mr. Singh and the party high command would go by the choice the Chief Minister, party sources said.This may create a split in the Chief Minister’s camp as Mr. Siddaramaiah’s two associates H.M. Revanna, MLC, and Mr. Suresh are both battling for ticket. As Mr. Revanna got nominated to the Legislative Council after he was denied ticket to contest the 2013 Assembly elections, sources said the party had decided against fielding him for the byelection.R.V. Venkatesh, MLC, too met Mr. Singh and sought ticket.Veteran leader and former Union Railway Minister C.K. Jaffer Sharief called on Mr. Singh to seek ticket for his grandson Rahman Khan to contest from Hebbal. As the party has proposed to field a Muslim candidate, Rahim Khan, from Bidar, Mr. Rahman Khan was unlikely to get ticket in Hebbal, sources said.Mr. Rahim Khan had lost to Gurupadappa Nagamarapalli (BJP) in the 2013 election by a margin of about 2,000 votes.In Deodurg constituency, the party has proposed to give ticket to Savithramma, widow of A. Venkatesh Naik, MLA. If Ms. Savithramma declines to contest, the party would field V. Rajashekhar Naik, second son of Venkatesh Naik who died in a train accident last year.Selecting candidatesCongress likely to field Rahim Khan from BidarVenkatesh Naik’s widow or son my get party ticket in Deodurg