http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Cadre-for-Intelligence-wing-under-consideration-says-Home-Minister/article13985519.ece

Home Minister G. Parameshwara has said that the State government has proposed to create a cadre for the Intelligence wing in the Home Department.Responding to questions from presspersons here on Wednesday, Dr. Parameshwara said that this proposal had been mooted as part of strengthening the Intelligence wing in the wake of recent suspected terrorist activities and other anti-social activities reported from various parts of the State. Chief Minister Siddaramaiah has given his approval to the proposal.“We will recruit officials to work exclusively in the Intelligence wing to keep a close tab on suspected terrorist/anti-social activities, attempts to breach peace and create communal tension, among other things, besides collecting intelligence reports and help maintain peace, law and order in the State,” he said.If the proposal comes through, the present system of posting regular police officers to the Intelligence wing and frequent transfers would be done away with, he said. The Minister said that the State government would further strengthen the Intelligence wing by providing it the latest technology and know-how that would help the officials to collect more information that are vital for maintaining peace, law and order and help prevent anti-social activities.To a question, Dr. Parameshwara said that the department was keen on establishing “green police” and “student police” and stressed the need for public cooperation in preventing vested interests from disturbing peace. “Public cooperation is very important for the law enforcing agency to deal with anti-social elements and vested interests,” he said.Dr. Parameshwara, referring to the recent tension that had gripped Hosapete city over a derogatory letter written allegedly by Khaja Peer, a photographer, leading to stone-throwing, said that normality and peace had been restored in the city. He said that the Home Department, which has recruited 8,000 police constables, was planning to recruit an equal number to fill all vacant posts.“Notification for recruiting 8,000 more police constables would be issued shortly,” he added. Dr. Parameshwara was here to inaugurate residential quarters for police constables and hand them over to the staff.