http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/kozhikode/Call-to-celebrate-equanimity-of-rights-possibilities/article13985088.ece

Chief Minister Oommen Chandy will inaugurate the three-day Social Justice Day celebration in Kozhikode on Thursday. Minister for Social Justice and Panchayats M.K. Muneer will preside over the inaugural function to be held at Swapnanagari at 11.30 a.m.The celebrations will officially begin with a procession that starts from the Civil station premises at 9 a.m. Dr.Muneer, District Panchayat President Babu Parasseri and Mayor V.K.C. Mammad Koya will lead the procession in which around 7,000 people are expected to take part. The procession will conclude at Swapnanagari at 10 a.m. where District Collector N. Prashanth will hoist the flag.The rights of people belonging to the third gender will be a major issue of debate on the first day of the celebrations. The seminar on ‘Transgender friendly Kerala’ to be held at Swapnanagari at 3.15 p.m. will have ministers P.K. Jayalakshmi, Shibu Baby John, Director of Composite Regional Centre Roshan Bijlee, Member of Kerala Public Service Commission T.T. Ismail and cultural activist Civic Chandran taking part.An analysis of the government’s transgender policy will be held at Town Hall at 11 a.m. while a seminar on ‘Transgender policy and sexuality’ will be held at 11.30 a.m. Another seminar on ‘Transgender Policy- Meanings and Possibilities’ will be held at 2 p.m.Meanwhile, a seminar on ‘Kerala-friendly to the differently abled’ will be held at Swapnanagari at 3.15 p.m. in which Disability Commissioner N. Ahmed Pillai, Executive Director of Social Security Mission T.P. Ashraf, KILA Director P.P.Balan and Disability Census Special Officer A.K. Shaji will take part.A seminar on National Trust Act will be held at Hotel Paramount Tower at 12 noon in which Special Secretary of Social Justice Department A.Shajahan, district collectors of Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur, Idukki and Alappuzha districts and National Trust State Coordinator R. Venugopalan Nair will take part.An exhibition, adalat for the elderly, kidney disease detection camp and disability detection camp will be held at various venues in Swapnanagari from 8.30 a.m. onwards. Cultural programmes will also be held. Around 30,000 people, especially differently abled, are expected to take part in the three-day celebrations.The rights of transgenders will be a major issue of debate on the first day.