http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Calories-over-food/article14022793.ece

It is rare for a book to reflect the traits of its author and one such exception is Dr. Shikha Sharma’s third book “Are You Feeding Your Hunger Or Your Emotions?” It takes hardly a few minutes for one to realise how many attributes of this noted wellness columnist are mirrored in her work. An attentive and patient listener, she provides cogent answers and holistic explanations unlike that of a typical medical practitioner’s prescriptive cut and dry approach.On mentioning this similarity her face lights up. “It is my nature. Influenced by philosophy of Lau Tzu, Sun Tzu, Confucius and Aristotle, my approach to problems is similar to theirs. I make it a shared experience, a dialogue between friends. Intelligent as everybody is, they have their own perspective. I simply offered one more window for my readers. My role is more of mentoring and facilitating.”Feeling quite at home, Shikha likes the Mist at the Park. She immediately orders a cappuccino soup for her sore throat.The warm broth gets her talking about the Wisdom Tree publication. Insisting that it is not true that eating results in obesity, she informs that weight is a factor of emotional well being and so when faced with challenges, people evolve and cope with them but one thing which changes is the weight. “I want to put across that our understanding of weight gain and loss is oversimplified and fallacious It is not about calories in and calories out.”Startled, I request her to elaborate.Again the smile plays up and she gently explains that the concept came from the steam engine theory and human body does not work on principles of combustion but on metabolism. Turning to Ayurveda and Vedic theory, she discovered that when we talk about human body and weight, the latter is a reaction, a response and manifestation of the former to many things, emotion being one of them. It is true particularly for women.Favouring a light lunch, we order paneer tikka and vegetable kabab platter as Shikha finishes the soup while I opt for the watermelon juice – quite a contrast on the table.Drawing attention to the incorrect notion of women that weight loss is the key to happiness, the doctor, who graduated from the Maulana Azad Medical College, says it is the other way round as positivity in life is what inspires us to be healthy and lose weight. “Severe stress greatly impacts our hormones, which leads to an emotional burst. Trying to make a structured and a clear link between emotions and the human body, I discovered that our endocrinal system is that connect.”Citing examples, she says that stress and depression swells the body while in case of cynical people it tends to become dry leading to body pain.Feeling exhausted with such heavy discussion, we focus on tikka and kababs served. As the head of Nutrihealth, the glamorous weight-loss programme, do patients view her as the face of the company? “Yes, they do look at me closely. Would I be able to look fabulous to represent my company is a tough one but I do try to adhere to a certain regime and discipline. However, occasionally, I do slip up.” During such times enquiries from her old patients-turned-well wishers about her well being gets her back on track. “Like everyone I too need mentors who make me realise to take a leaf out of my book,” she says with a chuckle.Success as a practitioner turned Shikha vegetarian. She terms it as an expression of gratitude to the Almighty. She is naturally not inclined towards junk, preferring to eat home cooked food. “I like vegetables, multigrain roti, daliya, besan chila, barley kichery and rotis. And of course lots of fruits and salads.” Frying is completely avoided with emphasis on sautéing and steaming. A case of practising what you preach.Influenced by her Kashmiri mother’s cooking, Shikha favourites include monj made with kohlrabi (turnip cabbage) and gogji rajma (rajma and turnips) besides dum aloo and kamal kakri chuntney.Actively discouraged by her mother to enter the kitchen, the writer learnt to make essentials like roti, subzi and dal by observing her mother. “Hailing from a generation of women trying to break the shackles of kitchen around women, my mother insisted that I study instead of attending to cooking.”Making light of her culinary expertise, Shikha reveals that her home science teacher had remarked that the cake baked by her was lethal enough to hurt somebody! Similarly once trying to make her dal preparation tangy she added pickle making everyone at home cough incessantly.With writing coming easy to her, Shikha has several ideas up her sleeves. One is Bharatanatyam, which she is learning from Rani Shinghal. “It is a natya yog – yoga in motion and is therapeutic as it presses many acupressure points. I want to write about this dynamic exercise which enhances concentration and aesthetics.”She also wants to chronicle her journey as an entrepreneur. “It will be a happy, sad, witty and funny and present reality of Indian entrepreneurship.”Well, there seems to be enough to keep her busy just like her readers whom she wishes to embark on a journey of discovery of self and health on finishing the book. “I want them to realise that the joy of health can only come by appreciating the body,” concludes the author.