http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/kozhikode/Campaign-for-clean-air-as-basic-right-in-city/article14020172.ece

The city is set to see a campaign for clean air as a basic right. Pointing out that air pollution is turning worse by the day, the Institution of Pulmonology, Allergy and Asthma Research (INPAAR) and a couple of other organisations such as the Calicut Chest Club want clean air ensured through elimination of all sources of indoor and outdoor pollution.As part of the effort, a rally and a seminar addressed by experts would be held here on Tuesday. INPAAR’s pulmonologist and co-ordinator of the programme A.K. Abdul Khader said a large number of cases of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease were caused by such forms of pollution. “Kochi is already rated a polluted city. The way things stand now, Kozhikode can also become one,” he said, stressing preventive measures be put in place soon.Fumes from vehicles and burning of garbage were key sources of outdoor pollution in the city.Vehicles from Delhi“We hear that vehicles that do not conform to pollution norms in Delhi because of stringent measures there seem to be finding their way into our city because these are sold at a throwaway price,” Dr. Khader said.Public transport vehicles such as buses and autorickshaws that do not conform to such norms could turn out to be a huge pollution burden.A large number of cases in Kozhikode could be attributed to indoor pollution that affected young women and children. This was mainly due to the use of firewood by low income groups. “We see these cases regularly. Even among people with better income, the firewood is the culprit. Its use is attributed to the belief that food is tasty when cooked with firewood as fuel for heating,” he said.Nearly 300 crore people in developing regions still used solid fuels such as firewood, dried animal dung, coal and crop residues. World-wide household air pollution was said to be causing 40 lakh premature deaths a year, he said.The clean air drive would stress reduction of pollution sources that contributed to lung cancer, chronic or acute respiratory diseases.Air pollution in city turning worse by the dayDrive to stress reduction of pollution sources