http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/Capital-remains-a-playground-for-predators/article13983526.ece

en with poor education and between the age of 18 and 35 years are the suspected perpetrators of a significantly large number of rapes committed in the city, shows a break-up of Delhi Police data. Only a handful of these men are unknown to the victims.Of the 1,958 men arrested on suspicion of rape until mid-December last year, almost one-third of them were illiterates. Another 68 per cent of the suspected rapists had studied only till class XII. Only 54 men arrested for the rapes were graduates.Unlike the recent perception that an unusually large number of rape suspects were minors, police records revealed they comprised 7.61 per cent of all accused. Instead, at 85 per cent, the biggest offenders were men aged between 18 and 35.The figures related to the relation between the complainants and the rape suspects too supported police’s constant claim that most of the offenders were known to the victim.Live-in partners or men who refused to marry even after allegedly establishing physical relations with the women were the accused in one-fourth of all 2,095 rape cases registered until December 15, 2015.Own friends or friends of family members and relatives were accused for over half of all alleged rapes in the city. While co-employees perpetrated 44 of all the alleged rapes, strangers were blamed in less than four per cent of the incidents.A large number (86.73 per cent) of these rapes were reported to have occurred inside a house or in the jhuggis.In comparison, molestation cases were reported to have occurred inside houses as well as on roads in almost equal numbers.Of the 5,192 registered cases of molestation, around 2,000 were reported to have occurred on the roads. Police arrested the suspects in around 70 per cent of these allegations.Meanwhile, with an increase of 10 cases, incidents of rape last year saw only a marginal increase as against 2014. With a two to three fold increase in the last two years, Delhi had witnessed a major surge in registration of rape cases since the notorious Delhi gang rape case in 2012.The Delhi police have claimed only one in every five rape cases registered last year remained unsolved. Over half of them were cracked in less than a week. With that, they also bettered their performance in solving rape cases as compared to the previous year.The sexual crimes against women forced the police to come up with several initiatives last year. Prominent among them was ‘Operation Shishtachar’ in which policewomen in civil dresses kept an eye on youths misbehaving with women in crowded places.In the last six months since the operation’s inception, over 43,000 youths have been rounded up by policewomen for misbehaving with women. Another initiative ‘Operation Nirbheek’ led to police interacting with over 5 lakh schoolgirls.A large number (86.73%) of rapes were reported to have occurred inside a house or jhuggi