http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Carving-a-niche-in-the-world-of-art/article13981655.ece

While artists use canvas, metal or clay to transform their imagination into a piece of art, Harish Kumar has selected a different object to satiate his artistic yearning. He carves designs and portraits on fruits and vegetables, mainly watermelon.A native of Shivamogga district, Mr. Harish has come to exhibit his talent at the ongoing annual Krishi Mela being organised by University of Agriculture Sciences-Dharwad at the Regional Agriculture Research Station here.He has been showcasing his work on fruits and vegetables at various events, his trademark being the portraits of Jnanpith award winners from Karnataka.InclinationMr. Harish said that he was inclined towards painting from his childhood and he took up carving on vegetables and fruits about a decade ago.“My sister, who was living in Mumbai, once told me about some artists using vegetable to carve different images. In one of the TV shows, I watched some artists making it. That programme prompted me to give it a try. Just to check my ability, I carved an image of a woman on watermelon. To my surprise, it came out good. That drove me to take this job seriously,” Mr. Harish said.He said that after some time, he started getting invitation to present his work at events. “I have participated in over 200 events in Karnataka and other States in the last one decade,” he said.Mr. Harish said that whenever he participates in an event, he would try to carve the image of at least one locally popular person or place.Local flavour“Since I am in Vijayapura, I have carved the image of the historic Gol Gumbaz. Similarly, if I am going to Chitradurga, I carve the image of Onake Obavva or an image of Kittur Chennamma if I am presenting my work in Belagavi,” Mr. Harish said.He says that it takes him about half an hour to carve any image on watermelon.Asked about keeping the image in shape till the culmination of the exhibition, he said that it could be kept intact at least for three days.“All I have to do is to keep sprinkling some water regularly to retain the moisture or cover the fruit with damp cloths at night or when it is not displayed,” Mr. Harish said.Harish Kumar carves designs and portraits on fruits and vegetables