http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Car-that-brings-a-smile/article14016023.ece

This one still manages to keep a whiff of freshness. Even though not a recent launch, Hyundai Creta is still a car which shall be around on the streets for a long time to come.Marketed as the perfect SUV by Hyundai, it is a car, which even if not perfect, will keep the driver in good spirits. I discovered this while driving this car some time ago, for over a week. And I couldn’t find much to be critical. In fact, the manufacturer – bagging a lot of awards and accolades recently – has, I guess, made inroads into the competitive SUV market with this one.In terms of its exteriors, Creta stands tall and is a bit muscular. The design flows from the trademark Fluidic 2.0 sculpted design of Hyundai. Two things that particularly stand out when you focus on the front of the car are its swept-back edgy headlamps and the three chromy slats on the front-grille. Both give the car a good aggressive posture and sturdiness. Walking to the sides there are well defined wheel-arches and noticeably blackened A and B pillar which extend a frame and a structure to the body. The roof rails providing the sportiness of an SUV merge with the rear. And, on the rear end we see the wrapped around tail lights which even if not the best, look quite decent.Moving on in the inside, the car has a host of attractivefeatureslike the seven-inch AVN with six speakers, smart key with push button start, AUX, Bluetooth, mobile charging point and a lot of cubby holes and storage spaces. Three variants of the car – 1.6l Dual VTVT petrol and 1.4l and 1.6l CRDi Diesel engines – are on sale. While all get a 6speed manual gearbox, it is the 1.6l CRDi variant which offers automatic transmission too. While the 1.6l Dual VTVT petrol motor churns out a maximum power of 123PS, the 1.6l CRDi VGT oil burner churns out a peak power of 128PS.Having driven the 1.6l CRDi diesel variant I found that the car holds good and is stable on speeds north of 100km/per hour. There is nice seating position for the driver and a lot of space and comfort for all the passengers in the car. There are easy gearshifts and a steady acceleration.For the suspension there could have been a better make. On the brighter side, there are ventilated disc brakes at the front and drum brakes at the rear wheels which allow you to cruise at high speeds letting you bring it down at a quick pace.Overall, it is safe to pass a verdict for this one which is all about smiles and happiness. Creta is a creation not like many.It is one of its own. And, this is what makes it exciting.