http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/letters/Caste-on-campuses/article14012160.ece

Union Minister for Human Resource Development Smriti Irani’s observation that the suicide of Rohith Vemula should not be projected as a caste battle is totally unjustified (“Attempt to make it a caste battle malicious, says Irani”, Jan.21). Ms. Irani’s remarks come across as an attempt to mislead people while keeping caste discrimination alive and active in institutions of higher learning. She unnecessarily mentions that the victim had not made mention of any Member of Parliament or Minister in his suicide note. Had anyone been mentioned, the suicide note would perhaps not have been allowed to surface. Vemula’s words, “My birth is my fatal accident”, are more than sufficient to conclude that he was forced to end his life primarily because of the deep-rooted hatred on the part of many in the university towards Dalits. If the Minister is sure of her contentions, she must order the disclosure of all communications made prior to the suicide.Kallal. M.L. Raghavan,TirupurIt is extremely unfortunate that the death of Vemula is being politicised. One question that remains unanswered is: on what basis did Bandaru Dattatreya, Minister of Labour and Employment, call him “anti-national”? Is it because Vemula opposed the death penalty, or because he came in the way of Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP)’s agenda? Ministers should understand the difference between “opposing death penalty for a terror convict” and “supporting terrorism”. If being in favour of abolition of the death penalty amounts to being “anti-national”, then a significant proportion of the world’s population, including the people of the 140 countries which have abolished it, can be labelled as “anti-national”.Arijit Chakrabarty,KolkataThe writer of the article “The clarity of a suicide note” (Jan.21) points out that accusations of being “casteist, extremist and anti-national” must have broken Vemula’s heart. Incidents that have taken place in prestigious institutions such as the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Madras, the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), and now the University of Hyderabad (UoH) establish the fact that merely providing reservations is not serving the purpose of removing prejudices from people’s minds. The reservation policy, to a large extent, is being used to play vote-bank politics under the pretext of welfare. A lot more needs to be done to prevent such incidents in the future.Shubham Mathur,ChandigarhThe shameful incident is a blot on the conscience of our nation, which has been promising a caste-free society for all since 1950. However, for every such incident that comes into the limelight, hundreds remain unnoticed. ‘Discrimination’ is a fact of life for a large section of our population. Despite reservation, such forced alienation only exacerbates their condition. As pointed out by one of your own previous reports (“Top IFS posts still out of bounds for SCs, STs”, Dec.05), even positions in the top bureaucracy are the exclusive preserve of the privileged few. Merely enacting more legislation is not going to help get rid of the evil. The mindset of people needs to change.Yogita Beliya,NagpurRegardless of the political overtones now colouring the death of Rohith Vemula, some points emerge with stark clarity. The first is the ridiculous extent to which all institutions in this country are subservient to the political class. No matter what their individual standing, they bow to the whims and fancies of political figures, who by their own decree (and our tacit approval) consider themselves lord and master of all they survey. It is high time the average Indian rises up in revolt and makes it clear that in this great democracy, we choose them to serve us. Rohith Vemula was murdered. And if we remain silent to this atrocity today, then we are all his murderers, all equally liable for it.Anuradha Khanna,Panchkula