http://www.thehindu.com/features/kids/Case-in-%E2%80%98pont%E2%80%99/article14012124.ece

Rob Bilott is not a typical corporate lawyer. He studied in over eight schools in the U.S. before graduating from Fairborn High, near Ohio’s Wright-Patterson Air Force Base — his father was a lieutenant colonel in the Air Force. He also didn’t have a typical corporate lawyer resume. However, he made the headlines last week for taking on a case that exposed the American chemical giant, DuPont’s long history of unrestrained chemical pollution.Bilott graduated from New College, Florida, U.S. in 1987 and from the Ohio State University College of Law in 1990. Later, he joined Taft Stettinius & Hollister, a law firm that represents corporate organisations. His life took on a dramatic turn when he was approached by Wilbur Tennant, a farmer from Parkersburg, West Virginia. The farmer told him that his cows were dying and he had evidence to suspect that the chemical company, which for a long time had operated in Parkersburg, was responsible.DevelopmentsWith the evidence the farmer gave him and the extensive research he did, Bilott learned that DuPont used Perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) and this polluted the water which affected animals’ liver, heart, stomach, kidneys and gall bladder. DuPont had started purchasing PFOA from 3M, a Minnesota based technology multinational company, in 1951. Though PFOA was not classified by the government as a hazardous substance, 3M had sent DuPont recommendations on how to dispose of it. While DuPont’s instructions specified that it was not to be flushed into sewers, in the years that followed, the company pumped several hundreds of thousands of pounds of PFOA powder into the Ohio River, through pipes in its Parkersburg branch. What’s more, the chemical seeped into the water table which provided drinking water to more than 1,00,000 peopleFrom existing documents, Bilott discovered that 3M and DuPont had conducted studies on PFOA and its effects for over 40 years. The findings had revealed that the chemical could increase the size of the liver in rats and rabbits, and in humans, caused eye defects to children born from employees exposed to PFOA. By the 1990s, Bilott found out that though they knew about the ill effects of PFOA, the organisation continued to keep people in the dark. He now had the evidence he required and he drafted a 972-page public brief against the company, which he sent to the U.S Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).The EPA, using Bilott’s research, began its own investigation. In 2002, EPA released its initial findings on how PFOA might pose human health risks to not merely those consuming the toxic water but also to people who cooked in Teflon pans. The EPA also detected PFOA in blood banks and this was something both 3M and DuPont had been aware of, as early as 1976. In 2005, DuPont paid up $16.5 million to the EPA which accused the company of concealing its knowledge of the toxic effects of PFOA in the environment.As it stands now, Bilott writes a letter to the EPA every year, urging the regulation of PFOA in drinking water. In response to Bilott’s most recent letter, the EPA said that it would announce a “lifetime health advisory level for PFOA” by early 2016.” Clearly, Billiot’s efforts have yielded results.