http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/Catch-the-glow/article14024694.ece

Music is about reaching out. Music is about healing. Tejas, a fundraiser organised by Dheepam lamp oil (from the House of Kaleesuwari Refinery) will highlight this aspect of the art when five eminent Carnatic vocalists will perform to support the fight against cancer. Inspired by Panchadeepa oil, the two-hour concert will feature ragas in the Pentatonic scale. Partnered by The Hindu, Tejas will be held on February 7 at Sir Mutha Venkatasubba Rao Hall at 6 p.m. For tickets call 9840792782 or log on to bookmyshow.comSudha Ragunathan: The torchbearer of the MLV bani, she has carved a niche for herself with a distinctive approach to the Carnatic repertoire. A traditionalist, who revels in travelling to the core of ragas, Sudha is known for her clear enunciation of the sahitya and capturing the essence of the swaras. She has been enthralling rasikas with her impeccable stage presence and sonorous renditions.Aruna Sairam: Call her an experimentalist. Call her a conformist. Aruna Sairam likes to perceive music beyond labels and restrictions. As an artist, she prefers to be a traveller, who draws inspiration from diverse cultures and genres to come up with her own style.Soumya: She brings the same methodology and structure to her concerts that she would have applied to excel in academics. An ex-IITian, Sowmya has made a mark with the ease with which she handles the most intricate swara passages and vintage ragas. Her vidwat and manodharma are in ample display at her concerts that are far removed from gimmickry and glitz.P. Unnikrishnan: Here’s a singer who is as comfortable with elaborate raga essays as he is crooning for heroes. With his melodious voice and relaxed approach, Unnikrishnan bring to the concert stage a nice blend of tradition and contemporary thinking.Sikkil Gurucharan: He has kept the Sikkil flag flying high with his youthful energy and vibrant singing. Following paddhati or playing with new ideas, Gurucharan seems fearless in his approach. He makes enough time between his concert schedule to join hands with other musicians, especially his favourite, pianist Anil Srinivasan to savour music on his own terms.