http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Kochi/CB-finds-no-evidence-of-plot-in-Marad-case/article13989793.ece

The Crime Branch which is investigating the conspiracy angle of second Marad massacre has informed the Kerala High Court that it could not find any evidence suggesting conspiracy behind the massacre.In a report filed before the High Court, K.B.Venugopal, Superintendent of Police, Crime Branch, Kozhikode, said that secret inquiries about the involvement of the accused in the terrorism-related cases reported inside and outside the State were on. The cases relating to the 1998 Coimbatore explosion, Bangalore explosion, Kozhikode twin explosion, Kalamassery bus burning case, and explosion at Ernakulam Collectorate were verified. However, no useful tips had been received on this aspect.The report also said that no evidence was collected to substantiate the allegation that some interests groups behind the development of Beypore port who wanted to acquire land and eviction of people from the area were behind the conspiracy.It was rumoured that foreseeing the fortune after the development of Marad, some persons had purchased landed property in large scale and they had participated in the conspiracy. The police could not identify such a large scale grabbing of land by any interested parties.The report also added that no useful evidence could be unearthed to substantiate the rumours that the attack was carried out to eliminate Hindu Community from the coastal areas including Chaliyam and Maradso as to bring coastal belt into the Muslim domination. The report also dismissed the allegation that Naxalites had arranged arms for the Marad massacre. No information could be gathered in this regard aswell.Nor any information could be collected regarding the allegation that many trusts functioning at Marad and adjoining places were received unauthorised money from various sources and the same was used for purchasing land.The investigation team was verifying whether the massacre had any links with hawala transactions.The report also said that nothing adverse was noticed in the collection of money by the Calicut Relief Committee formed under the leadership of N.P.C. Abdulrahiman and others. The committee had collected Rs. 96 lakhs which was disbursed to persons whose boats were damaged in the attack. When the government sanctioned compensation, the committee got back the disbursed amount which was later used for rehabilitation of Muslim persons at Marad area.