http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Kochi/CBI-ready-to-probe-murder-case/article13996313.ece

The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has informed the Kerala High Court that it is willing to take up the investigation of the case relating to the murder of a BJP local leader in 2012 at Payyoli in Kozhikode.The CBI made the submission when a petition filed by Sajid, a social activist, seeking a CBI probe into the murder came up for hearing on Tuesday.Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh leader C.T. Manoj alias Choriyanchalil Manoj was attacked by a gang, allegedly by some Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI (M)] activists, at Payyoli in February 2012 in the presence of his wife and children. He, later, died at the Government Medical College Hospital. He was taking rest at his residential house when the attack took place.Director General of Prosecution T. Asaf Ali submitted that the government had no objection to the case being handed over to the CBI as it was highly essential to probe the role of conspirators in the brutal murder of Manoj.He pointed out that the wife and mother of the deceased Manoj had submitted an application before the State government seeking a further investigation into the case. In response to the request, the government had ordered a further probe into the case. The evidence so far collected would reveal the complicity of more persons who had hatched the conspiracy. In fact, Sivadas, an activist of the CPI(ML), who had earlier filed a petition seeking a CBI probe in the case had to withdraw his petition following threats to his life.The petitioner pointed out that the manner in which the murder was committed suggested a deep-rooted conspiracy. As usual, the police had arraigned as accused in the case persons from a list supplied by top CPI(M) leaders in the area.'Hand over case to CBI'Further investigation ordered by the State government was on the right track initially. He alleged that an unholy alliance had been formed between top leaders of a ruling party and the CPI(M). They had prepared a final report listing only names of those persons given by the CPI(M) leaders as accused. He alleged that there was a trade-off between the two political parties. The real culprits could be booked only if the investigation was handed over to the CBI.