http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/CBI-seeks-info-on-arrested-Dawood-gang-member/article13996355.ece

The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has approached the Mumbai Police Crime Branch seeking information on the activities of the arrested accused Syed Abbas Tublani during the time that he was in Dubai. The CBI’s interest in Tublani stems from his presence in Dubai, during the same time that an offence that the agency is now investigating, was allegedly committed in the city.Tublani, an alleged old-time aide of wanted 1993 bomb blasts accused Dawood Ibrahim Kaskar, was arrested from Mumbra on December 31 last year. Inquiries into his antecedents have revealed that he worked as a driver for Dawood’s brother Shakeel from 1999 to 2007, and was even sent to Sharjah to kill Abu Salem in 1999, but the attempt was unsuccessful.In 2004, gutkha barons Rasiklal Dhariwal, owner of Manikchand Gutkha and JM Joshi, owner of Goa Gutkha, were accused of collaborating with Dawood. They had allegedly travelled to Dubai and met Dawood, who had settled a dispute between them, after which they were further accused of exporting gutkha manufacturing machines to help Dawood set up a business there. The case was being investigated by the Anti Extortion Cell of the Crime Branch — the same agency that has now arrested Tublani — and was later transferred to the CBI in 2006.Late last week, officials of the Mumbai unit of the CBI approached the Crime Branch and sought information about Tublani’s activities in Dubai, with particular focus on his proximity to and knowledge of the activities of the gang pertaining to businessmen in Mumbai. It is a known fact that the Kaskar gang has acted as mediators in a lot of disputes between businessmen in exchange for a price.“Tublani was working as a driver for Anees during the time that the incident occurred, and this makes him a person of interest in the case. Discussions into the matter are still underway with the CBI,” said a senior Crime Branch officer. CBI sources confirmed that the Crime Branch had been approached in connection with Tublani’s arrest. “The gutkha case is being investigated by the Delhi unit. The Mumbai and Delhi units are coordinating on how to take the matter forward,” said a source.