http://www.thehindu.com/sport/CCI-is-the-soul-of-Indian-cricket-says-president-Kekoo-Nicholson/article13984404.ece

The proposal by the Lodha Committee to relegate founder member Cricket Club of India (CCI) as an associate member of the BCCI without voting right — as a part of the reforms process — has not gone down well with former India opener and past president of the CCI Madhav Apte and the present president Kekoo Nicholson.“I am not a contender for any place, either in the team or for profit and hence I can afford to say what I feel about the report. It’s (report) absurd because it doesn’t take into account reality. When you are a member of the BCCI, right, wrong or otherwise, be it the CCI or the National Cricket Club, Kolkata, they are two independent clubs and BCCI members.“How can you suddenly say that they don’t have the right to vote, etc. There is no logic in saying that Mumbai, Maharashtra and Vidarbha can play in the Ranji Trophy, but the three together will be allowed only one vote. You are allowed to take part in a national tournament and not allowed a vote,” Apte said.Apte, the 83-year-old walking compendium of Indian cricket, said: “What does it achieve? I think the whole report seems to be quite absurd and impractical. What’s the purpose of not recognising CCI’s overall contribution to the development of Indian cricket. It’s erasing history and for what purpose.“The Brabourne stadium was a Test match venue for decades, the BCCI’s first office was there and Bombay (Mumbai) Cricket Association also came into existence there. I cannot understand the logic behind it. How does this (withdrawing voting rights to the CCI and NCC) solve the alleged corruption in IPL. I would like to repeat, it’s all absurd.’’Nicholson said the club would appeal. “The CCI is the soul of Indian cricket; it’s Indian cricket’s birth place. Virtually all the BCCI tournaments, including Ranji Trophy, Duleep Trophy, IPL, Test matches and ODIs, Twenty20 Internationals, the ICC Champions Trophy, warm-up games and practice nets have taken place at the CCI. “Even the MCA’s Kanga league and club tournaments are played here. We have also staged the ICC Women’s World Cup matches. The CCI has taken pride in giving everything to the cricketers.”CCI president says club will appeal Lodha Committee decision to relegate it to associate member