http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/society/Celebrating-Trivandrum/article14014034.ece

Aroma of coffee beans, taste of beetroot cutlets, cushioned red chairs in a salon, crisp new magazines, warm sunlight filtering in through trees on a lazy afternoon, songs played in a wayside shop … Small towns are a collage of such images and memories. However, when those towns get on to the fast lanes of a metro, these images often get erased in the heat and dust.That was what happened when Trivandrum, a charming laidback city bound by golden beaches and green misty hills, became Thiruvananthapuram, the gateway to power and affluence. Nevertheless, many residents try to retain that link to the past. When one such city dweller posted a photo on social media, it opened floodgates of memory.That one vintage photograph of the iconic Indian Coffee House (ICH) near University College was enough for many in the city and from the city to wake up and smell the coffee. Media person M.G. Radhakrishnan was overwhelmed by the global response from all over the world and his post on Facebook inspired many to look into their albums for snapshots of the city. Soon picturesque snaps of the city were posted in the group ‘Trivandrum 1970’.The images inspired discussions about the gracious old buildings in the city that were being replaced by blocks of concrete and glass. Some of the participants recalled the taste of the cutlets and beetroot masala dosas at ICH, while others wondered what had happened to the buildings in the neighbourhood of ICH, one of which was Koder, run by a small Jewish community that had made the city their home. Soon there were many parallel threads on myriad aspects of the city. ‘Trivandrum 1970’ became a lively platform for everything and anything connected to the city.“That was around the time we were discussing ways to revitalise OpenSpace, an informal group of like-minded people, which was formed a year ago in the city. Although, we had organised various activities that were appreciated, interest flagged and so some of us got together for a stocktaking to find out what could interest people from different walks of life,” explains John Samuel, a former senior official of the United Nations.During the brainstorming session, they discovered that the city was the common thread that enthused all. “Every one had stories to tell, tales and anecdotes they had heard from their elders or their own experiences. We are inviting all of them to tell us those stories lest we should lose them forever. Before these images and anecdotes fade from collective memory, we decided to save them for a new generation,” adds Radhakrishnan.Thus was formed ‘Trivandrum Talkies’, a platform to discuss different aspects of the city over a year’s time. “The city is our passion and we hope to celebrate the place we called home and also plan for the future. Heritage, lifestyle, commerce, architecture, literature… there is nothing that cannot be taken up,” says Rajshree Rajmohan, an architect and one of the core members of the group.“There is so much to share. For instance, my posts had many members gushing about the taste of Trivandrum – beef fry, hot tapioca, buttery cakes and crisp puffs of Santa Bakery, tea from a particular place and so on. There is plenty to discuss and discover – the bikes, especially Bullets that ruled the roads, transport system, theatre, schools, banks… To begin with, we have organised a talk on cinema today,” says Radhakrishnan. The idea is to document and record the discussions and turn that into an archive for youngsters to find out what makes their city tick. On the anvil are 12 sessions, one each month on different topics. The sessions will be led by scholars and veterans who are willing to share their stories. Once the participants discover different features of the city, Trivandrum Talkies plan to conduct a festival on the city. “Exhibitions, talks, walks and story-telling will be part of the fete,” says John.Trivandrum Talkies has brought together participants of different groups focussing on the city – communities such as Trivandrum Heritage Walk, Tree Walk and Sketch and Walk.The first of the talkies will have participants talking about how the city became the capital of cinema in Kerala. John says: “My daughter, Ammu, had no idea what a talkie was. The sessions will be an opportunity for youngsters to learn about their parents’ lives and find out how the city has developed. I hope people will come with their children for the programme because it is going to be story-telling.”“But we don’t plan to stop at nostalgia. We will also discuss the city’s past, present and future and what are the problems that need be addressed, how the city has and can overcome those hurdles…,” adds Rajshree.Archaeologist Bina Thomas Tharakan hopes that the discussions will encourage denizens to preserve the micro history of the city and document contemporary history.Themes can range from river Karamana, music and literature to health care and fashion. “There is so much for the city to be proud of!” says Radhakrishnan.A salon called CentralThere was a salon here on MG Road called Central Salon, which was patronised by leading politicians. Run by two brothers, Balan and Vasu, it was the first of its kind in the city. Balan and Vasu disagreed on politics. While Vasu was left of centre, Balan was a Congress supporter. So Vasu would cut the hair for leaders like EMS Namboodiripad and E.K. Nayanar while Balan would style K. Karunakaran’s hair. In those days, these salons and barber shops were places where people gathered to talk shop and politics. Trivandrum Talkies hope to collect nuggets about such places and people.