http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Celebrating-best-driver-conductor/article14002744.ece

The district celebrated its best driver and conductor on Saturday, convincing not only the bus workers but the passengers as well of the importance of maintaining a solid public transport system.For T. Shekharan, alias Chandu, from Palakkulam, near Manjeri, and Satya Vallabhan, alias Satyan, from Irumbuzhi, near here, it was recognition at last. Mr. Chandu, 58, was chosen the best driver and Mr. Satyan, 61, the best conductor.Transport officials led by Regional Transport Officer M.P. Ajit Kumar instituted the award as part of promoting a safe public transport system in the district. “We are driving home the message that safe and reliable public transport is the best option now, especially as pollution caused by vehicles is increasing day by day,” Mr. Ajit Kumar said.Mr. Chandu and Mr. Satyan won the award after a rigorous screening, which included their professional and personal behavior, public concern, and preferences for safety.Mr. Chandu, who has been driving TVR bus between Perinthalmanna and Manjeri since 1982, has never caused an accident. He has become a synonym of trust and dependence for the people travelling on the route. His presence behind the wheel gives them a reassurance.Innumerable friendsMr. Satyan has been an essential part of Rasmi bus, which plies between Parappanangadi and Manjeri. His pleasing behaviour with the passengers on this route for the past 37 years has won him innumerable friends. “I remember you, Rasmi,” district panchayat president A.P. Unnikrishnan commented on greeting Mr. Satyan outside his office here.“It is our behaviour that leaves a lasting impression among the passengers, including students. Wherever we go, we will have our friendly contacts,” chorused Mr. Satyan and Mr. Chandu, advising the youngsters to show more commitment to their work.When the best driver was given a cash prize of Rs.1 lakh, contributed by bus owners and other philanthropists, the best conductor was given a prize of Rs.50,000, chipped in by Motor Vehicle Department field staff. Minister for Urban Affairs Manjalamkuzhi Ali gave away the awards here on Saturday.