http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Vijayawada/Centre-State-neglecting-NREGS-says-Raghuveera/article14026518.ece

APCC president N. Raghuveera Reddy criticised the Central and State governments for not properly implementing the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS).He alleged that various provisions of the MGNREG Act were violated and the Central government had reduced its funding by almost 50 per cent.In Andhra Pradesh alone, 15-20 lakh workers had migrated as the NREG Act was observed more in breach in the State, he observed.Rahul’s visitAddressing the media here on Thursday, Mr. Raghuveera Reddy said AICC Vice-President Rahul Gandhi was scheduled to participate in a meeting being organised at Bandlapalli village in Anantapur district on February 2 to mark completion of the launch of the scheme at the same place during the Congress regime 10 years ago.He recalled that the then Leader of Opposition in Parliament, L.K. Advani, had said in the UN General Assembly session that the MGNREGS provided the much-needed wage employment to millions of workers, thereby improving their standards of living.The UPA Government had implemented the NREGS in an effective manner for eight years, but the last two years witnessed its downfall.Machines were being extensively used and requests for work turned down. Officials concerned were supposed to either provide work or pay penalty for failure to do so, but nothing happened as the BJP and TDP relegated the scheme to the background.Social auditMr. Raghuveera Reddy said the scheme was reduced to a farce. Social audit, which was mandatory, was not done and nearly 7,000 field assistants were removed on partisan grounds. In A.P., the selection of beneficiaries was being done by the Janmabhoomi Committees. The beneficiaries were to be identified in village meetings. Payments were to be made within 15 days, but workers had to wait for several months to receive the money.APCC vice-president Devineni Rajasekhar, City Congress president Malladi Vishnu, Youth Congress State president Devineni Avinash, and others were present.Earlier in the day, Mr. Raghuveera Reddy toured north Andhra districts mobilising support for the Bandlapalli programme. He held a meeting with party presidents of Krishna, Guntur, Prakasam, Nellore, and West Godavari districts at the city party office in Vijayawada in the evening.The Centre has reduced its funding by almost50 per cent and reduced the scheme to a farceN. Raghuveera ReddyAPCC president