http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Centre-won%E2%80%99t-budge-on-special-status-criteria/article13999189.ece

The objective was to fill the resource gap of each State to the extent possible through tax devolution and the panel’s recommendations took into account the total requirements of the States under Plan and non-Plan.He said post devolution revenue deficit grants to the States were provided where devolution alone could not cover the assessed gap. Accordingly, the 14th Finance Commission provided revenue deficit grant of Rs. 22,112 crore to AP between 2015 and 2020. He outlined the releases made to the State including the Rs. 350 crore special package for backward districts for two years and Rs. 500 crore for construction of Raj Bhavan, Assembly, and other infrastructure.Raghuveera’s demandReleasing the letter to the media, AP Congress Committee president N. Raghuveera Reddy demanded that the Central government should clarify the objections it had for grant of special category status to the State. The Centre should clarify whether it would implement or scrap the resolutions adopted by the then UPA government.“The government should clarify whether the 14th Finance Commission has rejected the proposal to grant the special category status to the State,” he said. “While the then government had decided to provide assistance to the tune of Rs. 5 lakh crore to Andhra Pradesh, the Centre had not granted even Rs. 5,000 crore though it was almost two years since it took over the reins,” he said.While the Centre had denied the promised assistance to the new State, Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu’s claims on development were tantamount to meting out gross injustice to the State. It was high time that the Chief Minister prevailed upon Prime Minister Narendra Modi for grant of special category status to the State.The govt. should clarify whether the 14th Finance Commission has rejected the proposal to grant the special category status to the State- N. Raghuveera Reddy,PCC president