http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Thiruvananthapuram/Centre-urged-to-simplify-emigration-norms-for-nurses/article13995796.ece

The State government has urged the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) to relax the emigration norms for Indian nurses seeking employment in West Asia.Addressing reporters here on Monday, Minister for Overseas Keralite Affairs K.C. Joseph said thousands of nurses waiting to go abroad for work faced an uncertain future after the MEA had issued orders making emigration clearance mandatory for job applicants.“Since May 30, 2015, the Ministry has directed employers in 18 Gulf countries to contact the Indian embassies in West Asia if they have to recruit Indian nurses. The stringent norms have affected the recruitment of nurses from India. Job aspirants from Pakistan, Bangladesh, and the Philippines are cashing in on the situation”.Mr. Joseph said the MEA had restricted the overseas recruitment of Indian nurses to three government-run agencies, two based in Kerala and one in Tamil Nadu. Before the restrictions were introduced, an average of 1,000 nurses were recruited to countries in the Gulf region every month. But since May 30, only 869 nurses have got jobs in Saudi Arabia, the UAE and Oman,” he said.“While the MEA had introduced the regulations to check malpractices in recruitment and exploitation of Indian workers in other countries, the fact is that the stringent recruitment norms were putting off employers. The situation necessitated a relook at the emigration norms.”Sushma apprised of issueMr. Joseph said the State government had brought the issue to the notice of Minister for External Affairs Sushma Swaraj. “We have suggested simplification of the foreign employer registration process and legal action to check corruption and malpractices in overseas recruitment. The government has also urged the MEA to permit the employers to make direct contact with the three approved recruiting agencies.”The Minister said the State government wanted the Ministry of Overseas Indian Affairs to be restored. Terming the BJP government’s decision to merge the ministry with the MEA as an insult to the NRI community, he said it would be impossible for the MEA to address all the issues faced by the Indian diaspora. “It is unfortunate that the merger was not even discussed by the Cabinet. We hope the Union government would reconsider the decision in the interests of overseas indians”.