http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/kozhikode/Chandy-meets-Veerendrakumar/article13987873.ece

Amid speculation that the Janata Dal (United) is seeking a re-entry into the CPI M)-led Left Democratic Front, Chief Minister Oommen Chandy held a one-on-one meeting with JD(U) State president M.P. Veerendrakumar at the latter’s house here on Thursday. While both of them remained tight-lipped about their 15-minute discussion, the breakfast meeting assumes political significance, especially after the visit of Congress president Sonia Gandhi to the State last week. And a day later, CPI(M) Polit Bureau member Pinarayi Vijayan released an anthology, Irulparakunna Kaalam , authored by Mr. Veerendrakumar in Thiruvananthapuram.A party functionary told The Hindu that the meeting could be considered only a thaw in the frosty relationship between the JD(U) and the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) after the humiliating defeat of Mr. Veerendrakumar from the Palakkad constituency in 2014 and subsequently the poor performance of the party in the three-tier local bodies’ polls in 2015. However, it is learnt that the Chief Minister has offered the discontented JD(U) a Rajya Sabha seat which is likely to fall vacant soon and an increase in the number of seats for the party to contest in the coming Assembly polls.In any case, the JD (U) State leadership will have to make its position clear in the coming days without playing hide-and-seek in the changing political scenario of the State. Two different groups within the party have emerged with one led by Agriculture Minister K.P. Mohanan and JD(U) Kozhikode district president Manayath Chandran desiring to continue in the UDF fold. The other faction wants to shift loyalty towards the LDF, sources said. The JD(U) had walked out of the LDF after a face-off between Mr. Veerendrakumar and Mr. Vijayan over the Kozhikode Lok Sabha seat in 2009. But now the situation has changed with the CPI(M) having built bridges with the disgruntled JD(U) leadership.Currently, the JD(U) has two legislators and one of them is a Minister. It also holds chairmanship of seven State corporations. However, its twin rival Janata Dal (Secular), which is still in the LDF, has four legislators.