http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/kozhikode/Change-your-lifestyle-to-prevent-heart-disease/article13978224.ece

A meet on coronary artery disease here on Saturday sought to underline lifestyle and diet change to reverse atherosclerosis (formation of plaque that blocks blood flow in the artery), without having to opt for invasive procedures such as angioplasty or coronary artery bypass graft surgery.Organised by Kerala Heart Care Society (KHCS) and National Hospital, the meet prescribed Optimum Medical Therapy (OMT) that included drugs such as statins to reduce cholesterol, and lifestyle and diet modification to reverse the problem.When pointed out that alternatives to surgery and angioplasty were an area of dispute, a senior cardiologist said lifestyle and diet modification were part of a holistic approach that would have to include drugs, and also angioplasty or surgery wherever required. Angioplasty or bypass surgery would have to be done if required, because the atherosclerotic burden, or severity of the block, varied with the person. A 90 per cent block might require a surgery or angioplasty, he said.KHCS president K. Kunhali asserted that a person with even 100 per cent block had got it reduced to 80 per cent under the OMT, with the drugs and therapeutic lifestyle modification acting in tandem. “Comparison of angiogram taken before and after the modification proved it. Another person had the block reduced from 90 per cent to 40 per cent,” he said.Dr. Kunhali’s assertion came amid a widespread belief that even undeserving cases were pushed into having angioplasty without exploring the option of drug and lifestyle therapy. In a handout, the KHCS said ‘traumatic’ procedures could be avoided in 90 per cent of the cases. Cardiac experts had been advising stenting and bypass surgery at an average of 1,000 patients per year for the last 25 years. Over the last four decades, the management of heart attack had evolved from mere drug intervention to open surgery and minimally invasive procedure.