http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/kozhikode/Chandy-gives-wings-to-city%E2%80%99s-flyover-dreams/article14024445.ece

Chief Minister Oommen Chandy’s assurance that the State government will approve the proposed flyovers at Ramanattukara and Thondayad on the Kozhikode Bypass has given a glimmer of hope to the National Highway Division of the Public Works Department (PWD) which is awaiting administrative and technical sanctions for the project.The mega projects conceived under the District Flagship Infrastructure Project (DFIP), had been earlier put on hold by the Finance Department citing financial constraints.Officials said that the government had agreed in principle to go ahead with the projects last year. It was also decided that a special purpose vehicle, Kerala Road Fund Board (KRFB), would implement the projects. However, the Finance Department’s blockade had delayed the administrative and technical sanction.The PWD had also submitted a detailed project to the government. “Only after getting the administrative and technical sanctions, the department can go ahead with preparing the estimates and the tendering process at the national level,” a senior official said.A preliminary estimate prepared by the department has put the cost at Rs. 219 crore for the two flyovers. The estimate prepared for the 420-metre flyover at Ramanattukara was Rs. 119 crore and for the 480-metre flyover at Thondayad, Rs. 97 crore. Three bridges, including service roads, were also proposed at Neelithodu, near Ramanattukara, he said.During the inauguration of the last phase of the Kozhikode Bypass on Friday, Mr. Chandy had said that the PWD had declared a policy to construct 100 bridges in 400 days. As many as 60 projects had been opened to traffic till now. Another 17 were in various stages of completion, he said.PWD officials pointed out the two flyovers had been envisaged to solve the traffic jam particularly at Thondayad and Ramanattukkara on the two-lane Kozhikode Bypass. Now, the route had become more congested with the opening of the entire 28.14-km stretch from Vengalam to Idumuzhikkal, they said.Kozhikode city required at least four flyovers including two at Malapparamba and Eranhipalam junctions on the National Highway, they said.