http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/entertainment/Changing-roles/article14024538.ece

Raju Hirani on his first solo production Saala Khadoos, why the Sanjay Dutt biopic is a truthful account and why Ranbir Kapoor is the right choice for it.Saala Khadoos is your first solo venture under the Rajkumar Hirani Films bannerMaddy (R Madhavan) approached me for Saala Khadoos and it didn’t make sense for Vinod (Vidhu Vinod Chopra) to get involved. Like, when he was making Wazir, my name was not there in the credits as I do not necessarily like making thrillers. But I contributed in whatever way I could. In the case of Saala Khaadoos as well, Vinod would come home and see the edit and give suggestions. It may sound crazy, but we three (screenwriter Abhijat Joshi) are a bunch of people who collaborate, live and work together. It doesn’t matter whose name is in the credits. I’ve always been involved with production as part of Vidhu Vinod Chopra Films as well.It is the first film not directed by you that you are producing.Yes, it is a far easier role than to also have the responsibility of directing. Somebody else is taking the headache away from you. Sudha Kongara (the director) is the kind of person who doesn’t have egos. If she finds merit in suggestions she will use them. I didn’t go to the shoot a single day because I didn’t want to impose. Sudha wanted me to. But I knew there would be tremendous pressure, everybody will look at me. I am there in edits and other fronts throughout though. And it’s been a good journey.How did the film happen?Quite by chance, Maddy landed up at my place at midnight a couple of years back while I was making PK . He said he’d found a great script after three years. He was not signing too many films at the time, looking for good scripts. But he was like, ‘yaar, people will start forgetting me’ . He said he finally had an inspired script and asked me, ‘Would you like to be associated with it?’ He took 20 minutes to narrate it. My instant reaction was that it’s a good script, but I was still doing PK and didn’t know if I wanted to start another production. But he was in a certain zone. We got chatting about it over next three months. I’d see him and Sudha were very charged up about the film. They would talk about it all the time. I always felt if people are charged up about something and there is a reasonable justification for it, magic happens. If I had written the script, I wouldn’t have thought of Maddy. He was, in my eyes, this charming man with a good smile who played that character in 3 Idiots. For him to go back and transform himself into this muscular, middle-aged khadoos coach showed his enthusiasm. You may have the greatest actor of the world, but if they treat a film like an abandoned child, it will never work. I have always believed that, and it always makes sense to work with people with less talent who are excited about something than to be working with an extremely talented guy with low enthusiasm.The film also goes with the brand of films we associate you with: a feel-good film with a message about an important issue.Yes, it wasn’t conscious. I make feel good films and I get attracted to films that make me feel good. I will not be enthused by a horror story or a dark thriller; they don’t inspire me as much. Even after watching Saala Khadoos over 500 times on edit, I get choked in the last 20 minutes. The only reason to make a film should be on the basis of what happens to you when you hear the script. It’s a sweet little inspiring story.Sanjay Dutt will be released from his five-year sentence on February 25. Your next is a biopic on him. How’s it shaping up?We have finished one draft. After the release of Saala Khadoos on January 29, I will vanish for a month to finish the second draft. March onwards I plan to jump into pre-production. And second half of the year we will start shooting.It’s a controversial, explosive subject. How does it fit into the kind of films you like making?Sanju’s wife Manyata was the first to tell me, “Why don’t you make a film on his life?” My reaction was that that world doesn’t excite me. She narrated me a couple of anecdotes (which have now become scenes in the movie). They were very funny and moving but I said I still can’t make it. I have to hear it from Sanju and verify its truthfulness with others as well. When he came out on parole for the first time, I was editing PK . But I went to his house one evening. He started talking about his life. I went there at five in the evening, but couldn’t leave until 3 am. He started talking about his childhood.For three days, we had these long sessions. Then I called Abhijat and asked him to join in, and for the next 25 nights our routine was to be in Sanju’s house from 5 pm to 3 am, even as we were working on PK the rest of the day. I haven’t heard such stories in my life. And we could see he was being truthful, he was venting out. The material is so huge that I can probably make 10 films, but obviously we can’t because it’s anecdotal in nature. We were like, ‘This is crazy yaar ’.The primary reason we decided to make the film is because we found the material fascinating. Otherwise, there no reason for me to make a film on Sanjay Dutt. I am doing well in my life. Why do I need to do a film that will serve as a PR exercise for him? Making a film is a long commitment. It’s a fantastic story that the world needs to know. Also, we are careful that we portray the truth. It will be as per our reading of the story, based on my own assessment of his character. My judgement is not completely based on what he said but also verified from other sources.Why was Ranbir Kapoor the best choice to play Dutt?There are a few reasons. Somebody has to play Sanjay Dutt because he can’t play it himself. It’s a journey from an 18-year-old to a 55-year-old. Ranbir comes from a film family, he has the stardom in his face. He doesn’t necessarily need to look like Sanjay. He has been close to the Dutt family and understands his life. He believes in the story. Aamir Khan was right choice for PK because physically, he could look like an innocent alien with his boyish face. Secondly, he also looks at God, the way we do in the film. Imagine me working with an actor who does five rituals first thing in the morning. You can’t do a film with an actor who doesn’t believe in the ideology of the film. Similarly, Ranbir knows Sanju very well. He understands not only what’s on paper, but what could also be possibly going on in his head.Lastly, he is a fine, great actor.