http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/kozhikode/Chandy-to-open-Kozhikode-bypass-on-January-22/article14003183.ece

In a major achievement for the Public Works Department (PWD), the Vadakara-based Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society (ULCCS), which has been entrusted with the work of the construction of the fifth and final portion of the Kozhikode Bypass, has completed the project ahead of the contract period.The agreement to construct the 5.1-km stretch from Vengalam to Pooladikunnu that included two bridges across the Korapuzha and Purakkateri rivers was for 24 months. But the mega project was finished in 15 months. Usually such work takes three years to complete, Rameshan Paleri, president, ULCCS, said.In fact when the project was envisaged under the Speed Kerala Project that aimed at resolving traffic congestion in highways in the State, Chief Minister Oommen Chandy had asked whether the ULCCS could complete the project in 18 months. Based on this agreement, employees worked round-the-clock in three shifts.The Chief Minister will open this stretch on January 22. Kozhikode Bypass will also be the first National Highway to be fully funded by the State government. The government was compelled to fund the road project, as the Revenue Department found that the acquisition of land under the National Highway Development Project inadvertently got delayed.At present vehicles are allowed along the 23-km route from Idimuzhikkal to Pooladikunnu. The first stretch from Idimuzhikkal to Pantheerankkavu is 7.25 km; second, from Pantheerankkavu to Thondayad, is 6.17 km; third, from Thondayad to Malapparamba, 2.74 km, and fourth from Malapparamba to Pooladikunnu, 6.86 km.The final stretch has three junctions at Vengalam, Paloramala and Pooladikunnu with traffic signals and high mast lighting. This reach has three entries, four underpasses and 16 culverts. The two-lane highway has service roads except at the river portion, said PWD (National Highway Division) executive engineer E.K. Hydu.Project cost: Rs. 144.06 croreThe cost incurred for the project is Rs. 144.06 crore. The cost of construction of the road was Rs. 83.14 crore; Korapuzha bridge, Rs 42.16 crore; and Purakkateri bridge, Rs 18.76 crore.The total distance between Vengalam to Idimuzhikkal is 28.12 km. However, the distance via Kozhikode city is 32.5 k.m. The biggest advantage will be vehicles from Vadakara side can reach Calicut Airport and Thrissur side and vice-versa without entering the city.