http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/Chalo-Pathapally-again-today/article14009440.ece

Disappointed and incensed over their demands not being conceded in entirety, the Struggle Committee Against Caste Discrimination is gearing up for a second ‘Chalo Pathapally’ in its quest for justice to about 45 Dalit families, who face persecution by a dominant Boya community in the village.Since June-July last, the Dalits have been persecuted with the Boyas allegedly driving them away as the land that was initially allotted to them suddenly became precious given its location, right adjacent to the main road leading to Kollapur. The Boyas started using the said land as a burial ground and in a bid to isolate the Dalits, water supply was allegedly cut off and temple entry denied to them.As part of the struggle, the committee took out a rally on August 6 last resulting in an agreement with the district administration. The demands that were agreed upon included issuance of pattas again near the main road, 2 BHK houses with basic amenities and action against police and revenue officials who allegedly did not act fast enough against those who discriminated against the Dalits.The ‘Chalo Pathapally’ on August 6 saw the participation of Anand Teltumbde, grand son-in-law of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar, Bandari Laxmaiah, R. Nagabhushanam and Bathini Hussain representing the struggle committee. For the past few weeks, regretting ‘inaction’ on part of the administration, they issued a call to repeat the rally.Prof. Teltumbde told The Hindu that district administration was merely complicating things to throw agitators off track. “First, officials said there were no land records and thus a fresh survey was required. And when the original beneficiaries showed the pattas that they were given to them, they were called fake. Police action too was lacking,” the agitators said.When contacted, Joint Collector M. Ramkishan said the process of issuing fresh pattas was already on and said Collector T.K. Sreedevi had even assured them of 2 BHK houses promised by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. Officials continued to maintain that group politics in the village was compounding the confusion.Superintendent of Police P. Viswa Prasad denied the allegations and said six cases were registered against the Boyas and charge-sheets filed. “Five of the cases have been numbered in the Special Court that tries cases of atrocities on SCs and STs. Compensation of Rs. 10,000 has also been paid to 11 persons whose huts were pulled down by the administration last July,” he stated.