http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Thiruvananthapuram/Chandy-rides-on-high-command-backing/article14026618.ece

The Vigilance Court order to file First Information Reports against Chief Minister Oommen Chandy and Electricity Minister Aryadan Mohammed in the solar scam case on Thursday virtually hit the United Democratic Front on its solar plexus. Despite this, Mr. Chandy categorically rejected the Opposition’s demand for his resignation, drawing his resoluteness from the unconditional backing he got from his party high command.There was a sense of bewilderment in senior Congress leaders when channels started scrolling the Vigilance court verdict. The Chief Minister was addressing a programme in Kozhikode when the news first came in. The Democratic Youth Federation of India and the Students Federation of India, the youth and student outfits of the Communist party of India (Marxist) and the local party workers soon organised impromptu black flag demonstrations and blockades against him, not to mention the violent demonstrations before the State secretariat.The agitations gained momentum by news reports about the additional disclosures made by solar scam accused Saritha Nair, who in her resumed deposition before the Solar judicial probe panel, dragged in the Chief Minister and his two associates Thampanoor Ravi and Benny Behanan, MLA, into the case.Leaders’ supportThe agitations however led to a consolidation of sorts within the Congress in favour of Mr. Chandy, something which came about only when the AICC leadership, after holding discussions with CWC member A. K. Antony, threw its weight behind Mr. Chandy. Home Minister Ramesh Chennithala, KPCC president V. M. Sudheeran and many other leaders rallied behind Mr. Chandy. The High Court verdict in favour of former Minister K. Babu in a private complaint also gave some consolation to the Chief Minister.Mr. Chennithala said Mr. Chandy need not resign as of now. “It would be difficult to rule if Ministers have to resign on the basis of such court verdicts,” he said, adding that the Vigilance did not have any plans to appeal against the court verdicts since it was not a party in the case. Mr. Sudheeran also made a similar observation.As the day spanned out, it became clear that Mr. Chandy would have to face several ordeals in the run up towards Assembly elections both in courts and in public domain. The Congress leadership is not as much worried about the LDF-sponsored agitations as the plethora of court cases that might come up on election eve.The government is contemplating on appealing against the Vigilance court verdict against the Chief Minister and the Electricity Minister, hoping for a favourable verdict.AICC leadership holds discussion with CWC member A.K. Antony and throws its weight behind the Chief Minister.