http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Chandy-flags-off-Jana-Raksha-Yatra/article13982066.ece

: The Jana Raksha Yatra led by Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president V.M. Sudheeran, which is aimed at streamlining the party organisational set-up to face the upcoming State Assembly elections, got off to an impressive start here on Monday. Chief Minister Oommen Chandy flagged off the march at Kumbla, near here, by handing over the party flag to Mr. Sudheeran in the presence of All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary Mukul Wasnik, who also holds charge of party affairs in Kerala.The Chief Minister, in his address, launched a scathing attack on the policies pursued by the BJP-led government at the Centre. He alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in whom the people had reposed great faith, had begun to exhibit an air of intolerance on those who raised objections to the “anti-people” policies of the Centre.Coming down heavily on CPI(M) leader Pinarayi Vijayan, Mr. Chandy termed the talks planned between the Left party and the RSS leadership to check political violence “fake.”UDF will win: SudheeranThe United Democratic Front (UDF) is all set to govern the State for a second consecutive term, said Mr. Sudheeran, speaking at a press conference earlier in the day.Setting aside its differences on some contentious issues, the UDF will fight the elections united. The Congress-led government has managed to bring in positive transformation in society by resolving to implement a new liquor policy that envisages reduced alcohol consumption in a phased manner, Mr. Sudheeran said. The march, which will culminate in Thiruvananthapuram on February 9, will highlight the policies of intolerance pursued by the BJP-led government at the Centre and instances of recurring political violence unleashed by both the CPI(M) and the BJP in the State, he said.Mr. Sudheeran said he was happy that CPI(M) leader Pinarayi Vijayan had finally chosen to ‘correct’ himself by recently stating that he always had fostered friendly ties with Janata Dal (United) leader M.P. Veerendrakumar, against whom he had earlier made public his outrage over some political differences. “It is heartening that Mr. Vijayan has finally chosen to share the dais with his political opponent Mr. Veerendra Kumar at a function in Thiruvananthapuram and it would be ideal if all political party leaders shared common platforms.”