http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Changing-hearts-and-minds/article13997447.ece

A red trail blazing across the Bihar and Uttar Pradesh cities, towns, villages, highways, roads and streets must have made a delightful sight leaving people wonderstruck as to who these cyclists were and what they were doing? It was a yatra covering 2200 kilometres completed in 52 days, comprising Buddhist nuns of Drukpa order led by His Holiness Gyalwang Drukpa (the spiritual head of the 1000-year-old Drukpa order based in Himalayas) for espousing the twin causes of women empowerment and environment consciousness.Despite the long period he spent on the road leading the large contingent while negotiating what he called chaotic traffic Drupka hardly looked tired. On what made the temporal head take up environment and gender equality, he says that spiritual and religious leaders ought to take up issues concerning humankind and the world. “I think they should have done it in the past. Then the situation would not have deteriorated like this. I am not blaming them but they should have been a positive intervention, more so, since they held sway over hundreds of thousands. It is and will continue to be a part of their duty and responsibility.”At this point he goes on to emphasise while supporting environment protection he is not against development per se. “I do not think negatively about modernisation and industrialisation because a large population depends on it. I tell my students to grow their business but keep the balance by subscribing to Buddha’s teaching of moderation.” He feels that we have enough knowledge and wisdom to take care of the ills we have wrecked on nature. “We can find a solution. God always provides one,” exuding a genuine faith in Him. Is he espousing modernity with the Buddhist concept of Jungwa (harmonious existence with nature)? He agrees, “A balance needs to be struck between our needs and the elements of nature.”His decision to chose more than 250 nuns trained in Kung Fu was to underline the common attributes of women and nature as both create, nurture, care and sustain life. Besides he wanted to send a message to women to take the centre-stage and stop playing second fiddle in matters concerning conservation. It also provided the nuns a chance to move out of the monastery confines and experience the world. “The idea was to kill two birds with one stone,” says the Drukpa with a chuckle.Defining his role in empowerment he feels that it is confined to awakening what is inherent in these women. In fact to achieve this end he introduced Kung Fu in the monastery. “A healthy body leads to healthy mind. Kung Fu toughens the nuns mentally, physically and emotionally. The concentration it entails gives them confident to take care of themselves while developing their personality.”The cycle usually looked down upon was an apt choice for the yatra symbolising a pollution-free means of commuting and keeping fit.Quite in sync with the movement been led by elected representatives, officials and corporate leaders to ride bicycle in Delhi and Gurgaon in order to inspire others.The response to the yatra was heartening and positive as people cutting across age, gender, education and economic status were inquisitive to know the cause been espoused by the group with many agreeing and committing themselves towards its twin objectives.“Everyone cheered us and heard us out patiently with many coming forward to take up the cause at an individual and community level,” comments Drukpa. He is planning similar yatra at all-India level in which he wants to include women other than nuns too.Jigme Tingdzin Zangmo, Ladakh:The Class X pass-out who became a nun after been attracted to Buddhist spiritual practices described the yatra as physically and mentally tough but was happy with reception of the people en route. “They were inquisitive and after hearing us many committed not to use plastic and take up cycling. Many men responded positively on gender equality.”Jigme Wangchuk, Bhutan:This nun took up as an opportunity to do good for the mankind quizzed as to how men decided that women were second to them. Deeply moved by the experiences which many women shared with her on the issue, the cheerful bhikshuni revealed that the group had great fun too as they saw new places, met new people and visited several holy places.Jigme Yudron Lhamo, Himachal Pradesh:This graduate in arts waited for long to get the call to join the order and it came when the Drukpa visited her village in 2005. She profoundly touched the lack of opportunity to progress among women in UP and Bihar and wondered as to “why there is inequality when both the boy and girl are both born from a woman’s womb?” She is positive that many of the women who talked to them will have a change of heart.Jigme Migyur Palmo, Ladakh:Initially hesitant, Palmo opened slowly to reveal that she joined the order in 2005 after passing Class VIII. “School was fun but Monday was tough when we had to appear for tests,” she confides with a smile. Having joined the yatra to create awareness she says, “We all need somebody to show us the way.”