http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Charity-on-his-mind/article13986388.ece

Anirban Lahiri grew up playing golf on various Army courses across the country. “It’s a very popular pastime in the forces, so I have my father and the armed forces to thank for my introduction to the game,” he says. The 28-year-old professional golfer will be in Chennai this weekend, along with other star players, for a charity event to raise funds for flood rehabilitation.“I never really thought about playing golf professionally till I was about 19, and I turned professional at 20. Kids these days prepare for it from a much earlier age, and by the time they are 14 or 15, they are focussed and work with the purpose of turning professional,” says Anirban.While the sport is gaining popularity, he feels that it needs a lot more promotion by the Government to make it more acceptable. This, says Anirban, can be partly achieved with more public driving ranges and golf courses. There is also need to affiliate the sport at the school and college levels. “When in college, I was playing in the Asian Games for the country, but I didn’t get any leeway in attendance, whereas the guy who sat next to me and played sports only for the college had a lot more perks and privileges. These things do make a difference.” But, Anirban has come a long way since then: Next week, he will fly to Malaysia for the Eurasia Cup, and then to U.S. for his season on the PGA tour.This will be Anirban’s first time in Chennai, and while he’s only going to be here for a little over 24 hours, he’s looking forward to trying out some seafood.But, it’s the charity angle of the event that he is truly passionate about. “This is the second such event that’s happening; last year, we had one in Pune. It was conceptualised by one of my professional golfer friends, and it made a lot of sense, because we don’t get the opportunity to give back to society and to people through golf. All of us play for ourselves and our country, but seldom do we have the opportunity to make a difference. And, I know it sounds clichéd, but it’s actually a really nice feeling to be able to make a difference.” The second edition of the Nirmayan Charity PRO-AM GolfTournament, organised by Madras Round Table 1, will take place at the Madras Gymkhana Golf  Club, Guindy, on January 9.