http://www.thehindu.com/sport/football/Chetri%E2%80%99s-strike-seals-it-for-India/article13978894.ece

Sunil Chetri scored one of the most important goals of his career when his 101st-minute strike snatched an unlikely win for India in the final of the SAFF Suzuki Cup football tournament against Afghanistan on Sunday.The Indian skipper cashed in on some poor defending by the Afghans to squeeze the ball into net past goalkeeper Azizi in the 11th minute of extra-time. The Indians then withstood a barrage of attacks to lift the trophy for the seventh time, and after a gap of four years.There was drama when referee Kimuru Hiroyuki of Japan turned down Afghanistan’s appeal for a penalty for a handball inside the Indian box in the 115th minute. The loose ball came to Khaibar Amani whose shot rebounded off the far post and India survived. The protesting Afghan coach, Petar Segrt, was banished to the sidelines by the referee.The young Indian players, backed by a vociferous crowd of around 35,000, stood up admirably to the experienced Afghanistan side. They were able to choke the free flowing style of their opponents. They showed enough verve and keenness to win the ball, and didn’t provide too many opportunities for the Afghan midfielders to take control.As in the previous matches, the Indians used the width of the field to launch attacks from both flanks. Halicharan, on the left, and Jairu, on the right, created chances for Chetri and Jeje Lalpekhlua. After the initial hesitancy, the breakthrough for India came in the 15th minute when Jeje found Hali Charan Narzary on the left. The midfielder’s first-timer rebounded off a defender. Afghan goalkeeper Azizi palmed the ball away and the rebound came to Jeje whose header bounced back into play after hitting the post.Even as Hali Charan forced another save from Azizi in the 17th minute, Norallah Amiri missed a sitter for Afghanistan in the 20th minute. Pritam Kotal lost the ball to Zubayr Amiri who squared it to Norallah. The latter, however, hit wide with only the goalkeeper Gurpreet Singh to beat.Azizi brought off an excellent save to deny a sublime Chetri, who did well to chest down a pass and sneaked in a left-footer at the Afghan goal. Azizi, blinded by two defenders, was alert enough to avert the danger. The Indian goal had a close shave when captain Faysal back-heeled a cross arrowed in by Zubayr from the right flank, Gurpreet diving towards his left to deny the Afghans.The bar denied Jeje early on in the second half. The Indian’s superb volley past the advancing Azizi, after being put in position by Chetri, came off the woodwork.The Indians swarmed the rival half and Hali Charan’s goal-bound shot was deflected for a corner in the 62nd minute.Afghanistan got the goal against the run of play in the 70th minute. Captain Faysal Shayesteh sent Zubayr clear with a through-ball, and the striker came up with a clinical finish.However, India equalised within two minutes when Jairu found Chetri with a long ball. The Indian skipper did well to control it and tap it towards Jeje who guided the ball into the back of the net.The Afghans pressed hard for the winner, putting the Indians under severe pressure. Gurpreet made a mess of a high ball and the rebound came to Zubayr. His shot was, however, cleared. Faysal was off-target for Afghanistan in the 82nd minute.India, after weathering the storm, created two fine opportunities in the last five minutes. Azizi tipped over a curling ball from Narayan Das in the 85th minute and punched out a Chetri free kick in the 87th.India fielded an unchanged team while Afghanistan made two changes, Mustafa Zazai coming in for Omad Popalzay and Zubyair for Khaibar Amani.The result: India 2 (Jeje 72, Chetri 101) bt Afghanistan 1 (Zubayr 70).