http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/Chetan-Sanghi-seeks-Central-deputation/article13996157.ece

Chetan Sanghi, the Delhi government official who conducted a probe into the alleged Delhi and District Cricket Association (DDCA) scam, has written to the Centre saying that he is under “pressure” from various “stakeholders” to name some individuals, including a “certain VIP”, in his report on the affairs of the cricket body.The official has now requested for Central deputation and closure of cases initiated against him by the Anti-Corruption Branch.Mr. Sanghi, principal secretary, Urban Development and PWD, and Director of Vigilance, who is on leave at present, has written to Union Home Secretary Rajiv Mehrishi.“There was considerable emphasis on naming who were at fault, and in particular a certain VIP.There was a lot of pressure from various stakeholders since the subject was very controversial,” Mr. Sanghi wrote in his letter on December 28.“Since the ‘formal mandate was not to do so’, a very tight rope walk was taken and the short time frame of three days also did not particularly help matters,” the letter said.Mr. Sanghi, who headed the three-member inquiry committee, said there were a lot of yesteryear cricket luminaries who were vocal about the alleged mismanagement in the DDCA.Though Mr. Sanghi could not be contacted despite repeated attempts, the Delhi government’s senior standing counsel, Rahul Mehra, denied the charges.Mr. Mehra said the allegations levelled by the BJP and Mr. Sanghi were baseless and politically motivated.Meanwhile, a source in the government asked “why was the purported letter released by a political party in the first place? Second, why did Mr. Sanghi write such a letter two months after submitting the report? Third, the letter in itself states that committee could only give recommendations. This is all just gossip and the letter seems to be talking about some ghost”.Based on the recommendations of the Sanghi panel, the AAP government had set up an inquiry commission last month to investigate the alleged irregularities in the DDCA, including the period between 1999 and 2013 when Union Finance Minister Arun Jaitley was the head of the cricket body.It was on the basis of the Sanghi report that the AAP government blamed Mr. Jaitley for the mismanagement, even though the Union Minister's name was not mentioned.The official hasalso requested for closure of cases initiated againsthim by the ACB