http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Cherthala-to-embrace-organic-paddy-farming/article14024419.ece

The Cherthala Assembly constituency is planning to take up organic paddy farming. A project for total conversion of paddy farming into organic mode has been envisaged in a development report prepared by the Kerala Institute of Local Administration (KILA), which was approved by people’s representatives recently.The project targets expansion of area under Pokkali farming in phases. The constituency has about 200 hectares of fertile land where Pokkali farming could be taken up, including 160 hectares in Pattanakkad panchayat, 40 hectares in Vayalar panchayat and six hectares in Kadakkarapally panchayat.One of the measures mooted for expansion of organic farming is to adopt ‘one paddy, one fish’ scheme which entails fish farming in the fields after one crop of paddy every year. Extension of subsidy for taking up Pokkali cultivation, and development of suitable machinery for harvesting of Pokkali crop are envisaged under the programme.IrrigationThis apart, the farming pattern would have to be changed so that the harvesting operations are done in tandem with the farming season in Kuttanad which would facilitate the use of harvesting machines employed in Kuttanad. The shutters of Andhakaranazhy would have to be mechanised to ensure proper irrigation facilities and to control brackish water incursion into the fields.An awareness campaign would have to be taken up prior to the implementation of the project. A marketing network for sale of organic produce and establishment of quality-control laboratories are among other measures required. Starting of units to make organic manure and organic pesticides and funding schemes for marketing are also necessary.Meanwhile, an organic horticulture project has been launched in Elanji in Cherthala south grama panchayat. The scheme is supported by agricultural department and Cherthala South Cooperative Bank. The scheme has been taken up in 50 acres by a few farming groups. Loans up to Rs.25,000 will be allocated to each farming group. The plan is to develop a marketing setup for collection and sale of the produce.‘One paddy, one fish’ scheme mooted for expansion of paddy farmingOrganic horticulture project launched in Elanji