http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Thiruvananthapuram/Chief-Secretary-recounts-his-moment-of-glory/article14006758.ece

Jiji Thomson, Kerala’s 39th Chief Secretary, once won enough money from an All-India debating competition with which he could buy a plot of land in Thiruvananthapuram. He loves public speaking. It had all begun when he was at school.He had come first in Elocution at the State School Arts Festival of 1971 in Alappuzha. Kerala’s topmost IAS officer tellsP.K. Ajith Kumarhow he beat a tough field on his way to glory at the State festival.I was encouraged to take part in elocution competitions by my parents. I had studied at Government Model High School in Thiruvananthapuram, where itself there were many other good speakers. It was after a tough competition at the Thiruvananthapuram district festival that I earned the right to take part in the State festival. The district event was held at Government Girls’ High School, Cotton Hill, where my mother was a teacher. She was there to listen to my speech.In Alappuzha, the topic for the competition was ‘The role of the student in nation-rebuilding.’ I began my speech with the famous quote of Duke of Wellington: ‘The Battle of Waterloo was won on the playing fields of Eaton.’The competition was held at Leo XII High School, Alappuzha. Among the judges were scholars S. Guptan Nair and N.V. Krishna Warrier. The All India Radio then used to broadcast recordings from the State festival; I remember listening to the excerpts of my speech from the radio of a stranger’s house in Thiruvananthapuram.The first prize I won at the State festival is something I will always cherish. It made me more confident than ever as a public speaker. When I won the All-India inter-university debate championship in 1978, I got Rs.10,000 as the prize-money, with which my family bought some land.And I am proud about the fact that I am probably the only one among the 39 Chief Secretaries of Kerala to have won a prize at the State School Arts Festival.The first prize I won at the State festival is something I will always cherish.