http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Children%E2%80%99s-sports-meet-in-Udupi-on-January-10/article13985142.ece

The Udupi District Athletics Association will organise a district-level children’s sports meet – 2016 at the Mahatma Gandhi District Stadium at Ajjarkad here on Sunday.Addressing presspersons here on Wednesday, Dinesh Puthran, president of the association, said that the main intention for conducting the Meet was to identify and nurture sports talent among the children.The tournament was being held for boys and girls in the under-8, under-10, under-12 and -nder 14 categories.Besides holding individual competitions, there will be relay and other events. In every category, both individual championship and team championship awards would be given.The overall championship trophy too would be given. to the winning teamAlready over 750 students from 30 schools across the district had registered for the sports meet. The last date for sending entries was January 8.The organising committee is expecting that finally over 1,000 children would participate in the meet. The association had been holding the kids sports meet for the last 10 years here and it was getting good responseThose bagging the top positions in the competitions would be given training during a summer camp to be organised by the association in April.The inauguration of the sports meet would be held at 10 a.m. at the District Stadium on January 10. Clifford Joseph Joshua, athlete, and Saihari, Senior Area Manager of Karantaka Hero MotorCorp Ltd. would participate in the inaugural function.The prize distribution function would be held at 3 p.m. at the same venue. Renu Jayaram, entrepreneur, and Roopa Kini, Principal of Shantiniketan English Medium School, would be the chief guests, Mr. Puthran said.M. Chandrashekhar Hegde, Seethanadi Satish Shetty, Vice Presidents of the Association, Gregory D’Silva, Treasurer, Jayaram Suvarna, convener, were present.The inauguration of the meet will be held at 10 a.m.at the District Stadium