http://www.thehindu.com/news/international/Chinese-markets-stage-modest-recovery-following-Thursday%E2%80%99s-rout/article13988536.ece

China has taken two major steps — strengthening the fix of the Chinese Yuan with the U.S. dollar and suspending the “circuit breaker” mechanism that > triggered a massive sell off on Thursday — to help the markets stage a modest recovery on Friday.The blue-chip composite CSI 300 was up by 2.04 per cent on Friday, but the overall decline during the week was steep. The Shanghai stock exchange lost 9.97 per cent during the week, while Shenzhen dropped by 14.3 per cent. The CSI 300 was down 9.9 per cent on the week.Prior to Friday’s market opening, the People’s Bank of China (PBOC) — China’s Central Bank —set the midpoint rate of the Yuan at 6.5636 per dollar, which was 0.02 per cent stronger than the previous day. Consequently, this ended an eight-day cycle that had fuelled anxiety that the Chinese economy was decelerating.Analyst s point out that the currency market was one of the catalysts that led to 7 per cent drop in the CSI 300 index , resulting in the activation of the “circuit breaker” that brought trading to halt onThursday. On Thursday, the PBOC had set the fix for the Yuan, also called renminbi, which was 0.51 per cent weaker than the previous day.This was done eight times in a row, and was the biggest such move since mid-August, leading to an interpretation in the markets that the Chinese economy was set on a declining path.As the markets went into free fall, the China Securities Regulatory Commission (SCRC) spokesman Deng Ke announced on Thursday that the “circuit breaker” mechanism had been suspended. “The negative impact now has exceeded the positive side,” observed Mr. Deng. “In order to protect the stability of the stock market, the CSRC has decided to suspend the mechanism.”The failure of the “circuit breaker” to arrest, and possibly contribute to a frenzied sell-off has triggered a major debate in China. An article in the state-run tabloid Global Times points outthat, “Concerns have been voiced that the circuit breaker mechanism may have increased the volatility of share prices and some investors had called for a quick improvement in the system.The recent stock market volatility has shown that the circuit breaker mechanism is not a panacea for reining in panic selling and some detailed adjustments are undoubtedly needed.”The write-up observes that for many years countries such as the United States have used circuit breaker systems to arrest market volatility, “but most of them adopt more relaxed trigger points”. “China may need to learn from their experiences to avoid frequently triggering the mechanism, so the current trigger points of 5 percent and 7 percent may have to be changed.”