http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Children%E2%80%99s-talent-comes-to-the-fore/article14019072.ece

Schoolchildren ruled the roost on the second day of the two-day State-level Kriya Children’s Festival held on the sprawling campus of Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Kakinada (JNTUK) here on Sunday. Thousands of children from various government and private schools from all the 13 districts turned up for the celebrations in which competitions were conducted in 16 different segments for the sub-junior and junior categories. Short-play, solo and group dance performance, yoga, solo and group singing, fancy dress, poem recital, science practicals, story telling, short film review, drawing, mono action, project, clay modelling and debate were the events conducted at different venues on the campus, in which experts from the subjects concerned attended as judges to evaluate the performance of the tiny-tots. While senior science teachers undertook the job of judging the merits of science practicals, veteran theatre artistes gave marks to the theatrical performances.Huge responseIt was the debate competition that evoked huge response from the children, which was followed by poem recital, dance and clay modelling. Like the first day, a good number of children participated in three to four competitions simultaneously with energy and enthusiasm. In some events, the judges could not resist themselves from taking selfies with the participating children who performed their talent. “Children are very good at story telling. Their narrative is simple and the themes are contemporary,” observed renowned short story writer in Telugu Sa.Vem. Ramesh. Managing trustee of Telugu Jathi Trust Samala Ramesh Babu, a team of organisers from Kothagudem-based Balotsav annual children festival were among those who visited the festival on the second day. “The response was unprecedented for the poem recital. We have made arrangements like inviting additional judges in the last minute and conducting the event in different venues simultaneously to ensure its completion in time,” said writer Vadrevu Veeralakshmi Devi, also a member of the Kriya Society. “Children who came over here are enjoying the science practicals being done by students, as the themes are pretty closure to our daily life,” observed Uppalapati Machi Raju, headmaster from government high school here.“Over 7,000 children actively participated in the second day events. The children, parents and teachers are happy with the arrangements here. Some teachers evinced interest in conducting similar festival at the school level and collected details from us,” said S.S.R. Jagannadha Rao, secretary of the Kriya Society.Children are very good at story telling. Their narrative is simple and themes are contemporarySa. Vem. RameshShort story writer