http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/news/CIDCO-Arunachal-government-tussle-over-prime-plot/article14001344.ece

The City and Industrial Development Cooperation (CIDCO) has initiated the process to evacuate the Arunachal Pradesh Bhavan in Navi Mumbai over breach of contract by the Arunachal Pradesh government.In 1994, CIDCO had allotted about 2,500 square metres of land at a subsidised rate to the government of Arunachal Pradesh for developing its guesthouse-cum-emporium. However, the latter leased it out to a Mumbai-based developer, who went on to use the property commercially.The 15-storey building is located near Vashi railway station and houses a jewellery showroom, a multi-cuisine-restaurant and an Italian food joint. The premises will be soon evacuated by the city planning authority. The Arunachal Pradesh government has hurriedly sent a legal team to handle the matter.CIDCO had served a show-cause notice to the AP government for breach of contract. The AP government submitted its response, but CIDCO found it unsatisfactory. The city planning authority cancelled the land allotment and has sent a notice to vacate the plot within a stipulated time of 90 days, which ends next month.“Arunachal Pradesh government has breached the contract and sub-leased the plot to a third party for commercial use without informing the authority. So, we have asked them to surrender the plot. Soon, we will issue eviction notice to the occupants of the premises,” said Sanjay Bhatia, Vice Chairman & Managing Director, CIDCO.Arunachal Pradesh Chief Secretary and Finance & Planning Commissioner, Ramesh Negi, told this correspondent: “The Chief Minister has held a high-level meeting on how to handle this issue. We have directed our legal team to deal with the planning authority at Mumbai.”A prime plot measuring over 26,000 sq ft at Vashi sector 30A in Navi Mumbai was allotted to the AP government at a subsidized rate of Rs 372 per sq ft in 1994, and the 60-year lease agreement was signed in 1997 for its guest house. But barely 10 per cent of the built-up space has been set aside for the guest house. In fact, there is no mention of the state government guest house on the building and there is hardly any space set aside for the state emporium.“Such violations could not be accepted. The city authority informed the Maharashtra government and also got the go ahead to act on the matter,” said another CIDCO official, who declined to be named.The plot has been set aside for the guest house-cum-emporium but Arunachal Pradesh Industrial Development and Finance Corporation (APIDFC), who was assigned to construct the infrastructure, diverted it to a Navi Mumbai-based developer, in violation of lease conditions, the official added.The developer had reportedly entered into a formal 60:40 profit-sharing arrangement with another prominent Mumbai-based developer for the development and leasing of the prohect. The duo later rented out about 15,000 sq ft to Kerala-based jewellery retail chain and two food joints. The building plan involves a total floor area over 60,000 sq ft in 15-floor structure. According to local realtors, the current market rate for commercial property in the region is Rs 25,000 to Rs 28,000 per sq ft.(The author is a freelance journalist)The city planning authority cancelled the land allotment and has sent a notice to vacate the plot within a stipulated time of 90 days, which ends next month