http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/CISF-personnel-nab-woman-who-walked-away-with-another%E2%80%99s-purse/article13993178.ece

If you are travelling by the Delhi Metro, keep a keen eye on your belongings, particularly after you drop your bags or purse at the X-ray baggage scanner during security check.On Friday, the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel caught a woman who had picked up another passenger’s purse from the scanner while the latter was being frisked. Timely action by the personnel meant the offender was caught before she could leave the metro system. She later admitted to having used the same modus operandi to steal the belongings of other passengers on previous occasions.“Snatching is almost impossible inside the metro system. Most thieves target commuters right from the stations’ entry point and then pick their bags at the baggage screening machine as our personnel are busy scanning bags or frisking commuters,” said a CISF official.“We have caught thieves who pick up bags even before they enter the machine and the owner has moved on for security check after dropping them,” he said.At 1.43 p.m. on Friday, 30-year-old Kavita informed the CISF officials at Chhatarpur metro station that her purse was missing from the security check point. The CISF immediately reviewed the CCTV footage and spotted 20-year-old Sushma (named changed) picking up the bag from the machine’s output roller. She was monitored via CCTV and spotted at M.G. Road station, where she was apprehended while leaving the washroom.“On enquiry, she confessed to having taken the purse. She also revealed that she had lifted bags at various metro stations on earlier occasions,” a CISF spokesperson said.The purse was returned to Kavita and the bag-lifter handed over to Delhi Metro rail police at Qutub Minar for further action, he added.The spokesperson said though the CISF keeps a watch on suspicious behaviour and have caught people trying to pick up bags that belong others, commuters too should remain alert. “This is why we modified the female security check. We have kept an opening from which commuters can keep an eye on their belongings while being frisked,” he said.Apart from bag-lifters, groups of female pickpockets are often caught by the CISF, which has now created a database of known pickpockets. The spokesperson said information regarding these known “gangs” is shared at all stations and they are apprehended as soon as they are spotted.