http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/CISF-returns-lost-cash-bags-to-Metro-commuters/article14009261.ece

Thanks to alert officials of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), two passengers got back their cash and valuables worth around Rs. 3 lakh that they had misplaced at different Delhi Metro stations.In the first instance, a passenger found that his bag with Rs. 1.7 lakh in cash had got exchanged with another passenger during the security check when he put it on the conveyor belt of the X-ray Baggage Inspection System (X-BIS) at the Saket Metro station at around 3.15 p.m. on Friday.The passenger, Ajay Singh, made a complaint to a CISF sub-inspector. “Our officials immediately brought the passenger to the Control Room to review the CCTV footage. On reviewing the footage, it came to our notice that a commuter had picked the bag from X-BIS and left a bag at X-BIS output roller,” said a CISF spokesperson.The bag that Mr. Singh had picked was first checked and the bag was handed over to the station controller.CISF officials then zeroed down on the other passenger, who was located at the Hauz Khas Metro Station.“A message was conveyed to the CISF at Hauz Khas Metro Station and the commuter was stopped. He was informed that his bag has been exchanged at Saket Metro Station X-BIS. He checked his bag and realised that his bag had been exchanged,” he said.The other passenger was then brought to the Saket Metro Station. “The bags were exchanged in presence of the Station Controller and handed over to the rightful owners,” the spokesperson said.On the same day, CISF personnel found an unattended bag at the output roller of X-BIS at the Chawri Bazar Metro Station. The bomb disposal team of CISF was called which checked the bag and declared it safe. A laptop and Rs. 1 lakh in cash were found in the bag, which was deposited with the Station Controller.“After some time, one Akhil Gupta came to the metro station to claim the bag. He was brought to the Station Controller Room and after proper verification, the bag was handed over to him,” the spokesperson said.Two passengers got back cash and valuables worthRs. 3 lakh that they had misplaced