http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Citizens-show-that-self-help-is-best-help/article13993095.ece

A group of residents of Ramteerth Nagar here set a positive example by repairing a nearly kilometre-long road with their own contributions on Sunday, thanks to the alleged indifferent and negligent attitude of the Belagavi Urban Development Authority.The group of young and middle-aged social workers, led by social activist Mahantesh Vakkund came together and brought necessary material and filled all the big and small pot-holes to make the stretch of the road from Harsha Hotel to Kanbargi-Gokak Road motorable.The residents of Ramteerth Nagar Layout, which was formed about two decades ago, have been complaining about the poor quality of road construction since long. They submitted several memoranda to the BUDA Commissioner drawing the attention of its members, besides the MLA concerned in vain. About six months ago the then Commissioner Ravindra visited the locality and promised to take up repairs in 45 days. But the Commissioner was transferred exactly 45 days thereafter.Mr. Vakkund said that fresh memoranda were submitted to the BUDA and orally requested to take up repairs. As there was no response and the woes of the road users were on the rise with vehicles suffering damage due to shocks, the residents decided against waiting for the BUDA to respond to their grievance indefinitely.“We contributed about Rs. 7,000 which was sufficient to cover all the pot-holes on the stretch of the road. Can’t the BUDA spend such a small amount to take up necessary maintenance works? Are we not paying property tax, road tax, income tax, professional tax, excise duty, commercial taxes, service tax, VAT and cess under various heads to the local authorities and the government,” Mr. Vakkund asked.He said that the district administration takes up repair work on roads, besides beautification works and other ornamental works, when VIPs visit the city. But, the same officials remain indifferent to the taxpayers.