http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/City-shivers-due-to-cocktail-of-ailments/article14015007.ece

Viral fever, swine flu, respiratory distress, typhoid and chicken pox are among the cocktail of ailments plaguing the city this winter.The drop in temperature is adding to the long lines at hospitals with doctors cautioning against “self-medication” and advising “timely treatment”.Doctors add that diseases usually common during this season are also on the rise.“We are seeing a rise in the number of chicken pox and typhoid cases. The warm winters and sudden drop in temperature is playing havoc with the health of people with underlying health conditions,” said Dr. S.S. Agarwal of the Indian Medical Association.The city has seen a sharp rise in the number of swine flu cases with nearly 30-35 confirmed patients. This contagious, air-borne disease infected over 4,000 people in 2015 and claimed 1,994 lives across the country.The total number of cases crossed the 33,000 mark country-wide.According to Dr. Anil Bansal, children, elderly and those with underlining medical conditions should exercise extra precaution this season.“The temperature has dipped and the minimum temperature is expected to come down further. This is harmful for those who have blood pressure problems and heart conditions. The elderly are the worst hit and need special care at this time. Currently, we are seeing a sharp rise in the number of people with viral fever and swine flu. People should not take antibiotics unless prescribed and should refrain from self-medication,” said Dr. Bansal.The rapid spread of swine flu has in fact prompted the Delhi government to bring in a slew of measures.A senior health official explained: “Awareness is key and we advise caution during this season. Hospitals have been alerted and we have stocked up adequate drugs, diagnostic kits and other equipment required to tackle any disease/outbreak.”There has been a sharp rise in the number of swine flu cases in the Capital