http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/City-of-Destiny-does-it-again/article13999142.ece

he successful organising of three-day CII Partnership Summit and Sunrise Andhra Pradesh Investment Meet here despite fears over ability to host such a prestigious and challenging event after havoc wrought by Cyclone Hudhud in 2014 has proved that the city has everything to be venue for international conventions.A temporary convention centre was built at the vacant site of APIIC at Harbour Park in a record time with world-class facilities by installing AC hangars, which came up for praise by everyone including Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu.Director of Industries Kartikeya Mishra told The Hindu on Wednesday: “Local support and gracious hospitality went a long way in making this event a success. The warm and helpful nature of local people, world class facilities at the venue, scenic beauty of the city and a responsive administrative set-up have left a good impression on the delegates.”“We had our own doubts on such a huge response. However, Vizagites won acclaim world-over for their spirit to fight back and rebuild Vizag after Hudhud within a few months,” Mr. Naidu stated at the valedictory of the summit. He also wanted Vizag made a permanent venue for Partnership Summits.The reason for success was also zero intervention from the political leadership. The event also came up as a security drill for the police just before hosting International Fleet Review from February 4 to 8 in which besides 50 plus foreign navies, President Pranab Mukherjee and Prime Minister Narendra Modi will participate.Reacting over the success, CII-AP Chairman Suresh Chitturi said: “It was an unimaginable and unprecedented success. AP’s potential and proven track record of Mr. Chandrababu Naidu are the reasons for this success. Fifteen per cent GSDP growth is now almost guaranteed.”The summit showcased both the investment potential and the interest in Navya Andhra Pradesh. “Many investors felt that the State is very vibrant and offers a lot of investment potential and growth under the leadership of our CM. Overall it was a huge success in terms of MoUs signed,” CII Vizag zone chairman Neeraj Sarda said.