http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Kochi/City-singing-paean-only-to-big-ticket-projects/article14018364.ece

The widening gap in the city’s physical and social infrastructure stares at the face of the administrators amidst the formal launch of big-ticket projects including the Kochi Metro Rail and SmartCity.Basic infrastructureNarrow and congested roads, growing solid waste management issues, lack of adequate drinking water, vanishing wetlands and canals and mosquito menace have made life tough for Kochiites.They reminded the political representatives and bureaucrats that the city’s infrastructure and social amenities would not improve unless some basic measures are implemented in fast-track mode. “We should immediately have a road network plan rather than waiting for a master plan to evolve. The authorities should have launched such a project along with Kochi Metro earlier to find a complete solution to the infrastructure needs of the city,” said S. Gopakumar, noted architect and head of the Better Kochi Response Group.Unscientific designSuggesting that Kochi Metro may not help in resolving the city’s worsening traffic condition, social activist C.R. Neelakantan said that the design of the mega project was not scientific.“The car population would not come down as people who want to reach places like High Court, boat jetty and Ernakulam market will continue to use their personal vehicle. Metro will also not offer any solution to the transportation needs of people in areas like West Kochi and Vypeen,” he said.P.C. Cyriac, former bureaucrat and social activist, wondered how Kochi would turn smart when its solid waste issues and mosquito menace remained unresolved.“Drinking water shortage still remains a major issue. We also do not have a proper and scientific public transport system,” he said.Water resourcesMr. Neelakantan reminded the rulers that no development would sustain unless they protect the city’s water resources, canals and its wetlands.Floods“The impact of a deluge similar to the one that hit Chennai here would be severe. The waterbodies are polluted. Canals have been encroached. It’s a pity that we are yet to adopt a sustainable development model,” he said.