http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/City-girls-bag-prizes-in-AIR-contest/article14018163.ece

Two young girls from Bengaluru have bagged the top two prizes of the All India Radio (Akashavani) National Music Contest-2015 for Carnatic music. In the youth category, 19-year-old Bhargavi Venkatram bagged the first prize while 23-year-old Apeksha Appala stood second in a contest that saw participants from all the AIR stations in India.The top prizes are entitlements to become B-Grade artistes with the AIR. “I didn’t believe it when I heard it as it is a national competition. Winning laurels with the AIR is an honour any time,” says Bhargavi, a second year engineering student at BNM Institute of Technology.Music trainingBhargavi started her training in music under her parents, vocalist Triveni Saralaya and violinist H.K. Venkatram.“For the last five years, I have been trained by T.M. Krishna, whose guidance has been very encouraging,” says Bhargavi, who sang Varali and Begade ragas to win the competition. As the winner, she has been selected to be part of ITC Sangeeth Research Organisation’s concert in Mumbai on January 30.For Apeksha Appala, student of vocalist M.S. Sheela for the last 12 years, this prize is another feather in an already decorated cap.She had bagged a prize in the devotional category with AIR in 2010. “My guru is my inspiration. She meticulously leads me into these distinguished categories,” says Apeksha, who joined TCS after her studies.“Music is an absolute relaxer, with six hours of training and six hours of practice weekly. I am looking forward to being a B-Grade artist with AIR in the classical category.”The ‘ISI mark’ of musiciansAll India Radio is the only organisation that officially grades artistes after a strict examination. Starting with B-Grade, AIR grades artistes into five categories. Those who stay in A-Grade for more than 30 years are elevated to the grade of a national artiste. “AIR grade is the only official stamp of approval that adds value to one’s CV as everyone knows that one has to train scrupulously for the B-Grade examination,” says M.S. Sheela, a senior vocalist and national artiste.Vocalist Triveni Saralaya, an A-Grade artiste, says, “Added to this is the process of getting an entry point with a B-Grade, which can often prove to be long and drawn-out. For musicians, AIR grades are like ISI marks!”