http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Civic-body-gears-up-for-polls/article13976788.ece

As the political parties fine-tune their strategies and marshal resources for the coming elections to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), officials are making arrangements for the conduct of the first biggest electoral exercise in the newly-formed Telangana State. With just the last hurdle of ward reservation pending with the government, notification for the civic body election is expected in a day or two. The State Election Commission has already made it clear that adhering to the commitment to High Court, the poll process would be completed before January 31. With a total electoral strength of more than 70.68 lakh voters, the GHMC polls would elect a council of 150 corporators. In the wake of a hue and cry over alleged large-scale deletion of voter names from the rolls, the GHMC officials said they have so far verified 3,91,369 claims out which 2,90,942 have been processed and approved, 46,612 rejected and 54,365 claims still were to be processed. For voters to exercise their franchise, the GHMC has decided to use more than 11,000 EVMs at 7,500 polling stations spread across its jurisdiction. A series of training sessions on the EVM usage were already conducted for the personnel drafted for poll duties.The State Election Commissioner, V. Nagi Reddy, recently hinted that one lakh government officials would be involved in the election process. While around 80,000 government staff and employees would be drafted for poll duties, the law and order and security exercises are to be taken care of by another 25,000 police personnel.Meanwhile, the election expenditure for a contestant in the GHMC election has been fixed at Rs. 5 lakh. The State Election Commission has also decided on a nomination deposit of Rs. 2,500 for SC/ST candidates and Rs. 5,000 for OC and BC candidates. The contesting candidates should not have more than two children as per the rules of the Election Commission.