http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Classic-and-immortal/article14019552.ece

One of the biggest draws of the JLF on Sunday was a session with banker turned author of the best selling Shiva Trilogy, Amish, who talked about the concept of Kaljayee, in conversation with Mohini Gupta. Amish says, “Kaljayee means classic and immortal. Many ancient tales in India have survived the test of time and it is important for us to learn the lessons from these stories.”Talking about the notions of the masculine and feminine worlds that make up a huge part of his books, Amish says, “It has nothing to do with gender. A masculine world will be a bit like China in its preparation for the Olympics, while a feminine world would be like India on the eve of the Commonwealth games.” He adds, “Both sides have their pros and cons. I feel that feminine worlds/ cultures are exceptionally creative, passionate and rebellious in nature.”On the issue of caste, Amish contends: “Caste in ancient India was not given by birth and was a flexible construct. Your caste depended on your karma. Most of the great rishis came from humble non-Brahmin backgrounds. The Maharishi who composed the Mahabharata, who compiled the Vedas, was not born a Brahmin, he was born to a fisherwoman. He became a Brahmin and went on to become a rishi. I feel that the system got corrupted over the years, especially after the British decided to reprint the Manusmriti, since it fit into the Victorian worldview. I do not use my surname on the cover of my books since I want to be judged as Amish, not as a Tripathi.”He adds, “I write about social issues that bother me as an individual. I do not like to take a public view on politics. It is one of the reasons I shy away from appearing on TV debates.” Amish admits that he, like many Indians, thinks in a mishmash of languages. “I feel that publishing is one of the few industries in India where English language tends to give regional and vernacular languages a good fight. I see more and more interest in translations of my works into vernacular language. I feel that it is a positive development.”On taking up writing as a full time profession, Amish says, “It is a tough ask. I left my cushy job as an investment banker only after I had finished my second book. “