http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/business/CLB-to-hear-FTIL-board-matter-on-Jan-29/article14000439.ece

The Company Law Board (CLB) will hear the matter related to the superseding of the board of Financial Technologies India Ltd (FTIL) on January 29. The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) has proposed to supersede the board of the public listed company for its alleged role in the Rs 5,600-crore settlement scam at the National Spot Exchange Ltd (NSEL).The CLB bench briefly heard the matter on Wednesday and posted the hearing on January 29 after giving time to FTIL to make its submissions in response to the government filing. FTIL has challenged the government order.“The matter was briefly heard for the first time after many weeks. The CLB chairman said while FTIL needs to be given time to make the required submissions, requests for further extensions will not be entertained,” a source familiar with the matter said.On February 25, 2015, MCA filed a petition in the CLB asking the bench to bar all directors of FTIL from remaining in office and allowing the government to appoint its own nominees. The government invoked section 388(b) of The Companies Act, 1956 while proposing to supersede the board of the company. Section 388(b) pertains to alleged misconduct, fraud and negligence by the managerial persons of the company.The government’s move was triggered by the NSEL settlement scam that came out in the open on July 31, 2013. It led to the suspension of all trading contracts, and the exchange and its board of directors came under the scanner of various regulatory bodies. FTIL holds 99.99 per cent stake in NSEL.Subsequent to probes by agencies like the erstwhile Forward Markets Commission (FMC), SEBI, Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of the Mumbai Police, assets of the alleged defaulters were attached and FTIL was barred from holding a stake in any regulated exchange.On a different note, the government also issued a draft order in August 2014 for merging NSEL with FTIL that will lead to the latter taking over all liabilities of the spot exchange. FTIL has filed a petition in the Bombay High Court, challenging this.The HC has extended the deadline till February 15 for MCA to pass the final order for the merger. The merger has become a sensitive matter as FTIL has been aggressively opposing it while entities that lost money in the scam are pushing for it.