http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/CM-unveils-big-plans-for-Tirupati/article13988436.ece

Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu has announced a slew of projects to transform Tirupati into an industrial, educational and health hub. He foresaw its emergence as the nodal centre for the entire Rayalaseema region.Speaking at the ‘Janmabhoomi - Maa Vooru’ programme here on Thursday, he said the temple city was poised to get to a higher plane in the coming years . He cited the developments like the new international airport terminal, national institutes such as Indian Institute of Technology and Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Indian Culinary Institute etc. as indication of world class infrastructure getting in place.On the industrial front, he said the Sri City SEZ and also the electronic cum mobile manufacturing unit coming up at Renigunta will have the potential to change the region’s facade. Tirupati-Chennai-Nellore would be developed as an industrial tri-junction, he said.‘City of tanks and lakes’Referring to Amaravati as a city of canals and Vizag as a city of beaches and hills, Mr. Naidu vowed to transform Tirupati into a city of tanks and lakes, which would offer immense tourist potential.Stating that the TTD has already taken up beautification of Avilala tank in tune with the Supreme Court’s directive, he said development of the 100 lakes would not only help water percolate, but also offer the much-needed lung space and boost tourism.“We will soon have our own Kasu Brahmananda Reddy Park here”, he said.Developing convention centres, exhibition grounds and malls for conducting major events would be an instant success at the abode of Lord Venkateswara.Apart from strengthening Ruia, SVIMS and BIRRD hospitals, he said private charitable trusts would be invited to build hospitals here to make Tirupati a health hub.The Chief Minister distributed pensions to the physically challenged, loans to the SHG women and gas connection to a beneficiary on the occasion.Ministers P. Narayana and B. Gopalakrishna Reddy, MP N. Sivaprasad, MLCs G. Muddukrishnama Naidu and Y. Srinivasulu Reddy, MLA M. Suguna, TDP district president G. Srinivasulu, Collector Siddharth Jain and MCT Commissioner V. Vinaychand took part.