http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Thiruvananthapuram/CM-for-interest-free-loans-for-farmers/article13983774.ece

Chief Minister Oommen Chandy has called for providing interest-free loans to those farmers who had availed themselves of the interest subvention scheme and ensured the repayment of their loans in a prompt manner. He added that the State government was willing to shoulder a greater responsibility for attaining the goal.Inaugurating the State Credit Seminar organised by the Kerala regional office of the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) here on Tuesday, Mr. Chandy pointed out that the farming community in the State battled several adverse circumstances to sustain themselves. The increasing costs of inputs as well as the stagnating prices for agricultural produce had resulted in great uncertainty in the sector. “Moreover, compensations provided for crop loss in natural calamities were inadequate. The long-standing demand for crop insurance was yet to be realised. Measures that have been adopted to alleviate the difficulties faced by farmers were yet to bear fruit. Under such circumstances, farmers will be able to remain afloat only with financial assistance and schemes such as the interest subvention scheme,” Mr. Chandy said.Lauding the initiative of NABARD to support the Kannur District Cooperative Bank’s project to computerise primary agricultural cooperative societies (PACS), Mr. Chandy called for extending the scheme to other district cooperative banks in the State.Delivering the keynote address, Agriculture Minister K.P. Mohanan said that the development of farmers’ producers companies was the most effective way to tackle agrarian distress. He said the agricultural growth rate in the State had improved significantly from -7 per cent in 2010-11 to 5.26 per cent in 2014-15.Karshaka Mitram awards, instituted by the NABARD, were presented to Gramalakshmi farmers’ club in Kasaragod, Aiswarya farmers’ club at Kothamangalam and Kakkombu farmers’ club in Idukki during the function.NABARD chief general manager Ramesh Tenkil presided. RBI regional director Nirmal Chand, State Bank of Travancore managing director Jeevandas Narayan, Cooperation special secretary P. Venugopal, Registrar of Cooperative Societies S. Lalithambika and NABARD general manager P. Balachandran spoke.Farmers battling adverse conditions, accordingto ChandySays compensationprovided for crop loss in calamities is inadequate