http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/CM-to-open-flower-show/article14002690.ece

: Preparations are in the final stage at the Regional Agriculture Research Station (RARS) at Ambalavayal here to host an international symposium on succulents and other ornamental plants and third edition of ‘Pooppoly’, a global -level flower show.Chief Minister Oommen Chandy will open the International flower show on January 22. Leader of the Opposition V.S. Achuthanandan, Agriculture Minister K.P. Mohanan, Cultural Affairs Minister K.C. Joseph and Minister for Welfare of Scheduled Tribes P.K. Jayalakshmi will attend the programme. The four-day international symposium will begin on January 24.The programmes, organised jointly by Kerala Agricultural University (KAU) and International Society for Horticultural Science (ISHS), a leading independent organisation of horticultural scientists, and various Agricultural universities across the country will be held from January 20 to February 4.“The 14-day programme is aimed at setting up a platform for free interaction of reputed researchers and other stakeholders actively involved in the global tourism , floriculture research, production and exports. Delegates from more than 50 nations are expected for the event.,” P. Rajendran, Vice Chancellor, KAU, told The Hindu after reviewing the arrangements for the programme on Friday.The KAU had earmarked nearly Rs.1 crore for the programme and close to 300 stalls for various government agencies were being put up on the RARS compound spread over 260 acres, he said.An exhibition of flowers in an area over 10 .5 acres would complement the international national agri expo, Rajendran Pangath , Associate Director, RARS, Ambalavayal said.There would be a rose garden with over 1,600 varieties of rose plants, including those from Holland and France, set up on 2.5 acres of land; a gladiolus garden with 100 varieties on two acres; dahlia garden on 3.5 acres with more than 5,000 varieties, and a gerbera garden with 150 varieties on 1.5 acres.Close to 5000 varieties of succulent and cactus that collected from various parts of the country would be the main attraction of the expo this year, he added.Apart from this, nearly 350 varieties of orchids would also be displayed, Dr. Rajendran added.