http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/CM-promises-to-consider-proposal-for-agricultural-college-at-Hagari/article14002340.ece

Chief Minister Siddaramaiah has promised to consider a proposal to set up an agricultural college in Hagari Agricultural Research Station.It came in the wake of the demands put forth by N.Y. Gopal Krishna, Ballari (Rural) MLA, who also sought steps to complete the Yalpi-Kaggal lift irrigation scheme that would help develop the taluk and district. Mr. Siddaramaiah was addressing a public meeting here to set in motion a slew of development schemes on Saturday.Mr. Siddaramaiah, while criticising the National Democratic Alliance government for not passing on the benefits of the reduction in prices of crude oil in the international market, said that he had not imposed any additional tax on diesel and petrol and had introduced welfare schemes for the poor.M. Mallikarjun Kharge, Leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha, said, “The Congress has laid a firm foundation for the development of the nation and for welfare of the people by introducing several welfare schemes, including food security, employment guarantee scheme, midday meals among others. Congress is also a party committed to implementing all its promises. Yet, our critics ask what the Congress has done. I am pained that none speak about the good works done by the Congress,” he said.Solar powerD.K. Shivakumar, Minister for Energy, said that 20 taluks of the Hyderabad Karnatak region were included to promote solar power generation.B. Sriramulu, MP, urged the Chief Minister to accord importance to developing the district by establishing a superspeciality hospital, payment of compensation for crop loss to farmers and the kin of farmers committing suicide, and release funds for the construction of new building for the Vijayanagar Institute of Medical Science college/hospital.P.T. Parmeshwar Naik and H. Anjaneya, Ministers and K.C. Kondaiah, Anil Lad, legislators, were among others present.Take steps to complete Yalpi-Kaggal lift irrigation scheme, MLA tells Siddaramaiah