http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Mangalore/Coastal-regions-pay-the-price-for-cities%E2%80%99-thirst-for-sand/article14013880.ece

Anyone walking on the banks of Souparnika in Udupi district or Netravati in Dakshina Kannada district cannot miss tens of boats with men aboard extracting sand from the bed from morning till evening. Onlookers would barely know that this day-to-day activity is recipe for an ecological disaster.Ever since the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) gave permission for excavation of sand by “traditional miners” four years ago, lakhs of tonnes of sand are being transported out of the coastal districts. Fed by the ever-increasing demand for sand across the State, particularly in Bengaluru region, sand mining is threatening the eco-sensitive coastal belt of Karnataka.At least 23 lakh tonnes of sand, equivalent to 1.4 lakh truckloads, was mined “officially” last year. Another 20 lakh tonnes are expected to be excavated this year in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Uttara Kannada districts. While sand is barely available for local construction, saline water’s ingression into hinterlands has increased, thereby damaging fertile lands and aquatic life has largely been affected in the coast.While sand mining from river is unavoidable, the question is how much and where, reasons S.G. Mayya, retired professor of Applied Mechanics and Hydraulics with National Institute of Technology, Karnataka (NIT-K), at Surathkal.He has been submitting reports on removal of sand from rivers in CRZ to the district administrations for four years. Following reduced rainfall last monsoon, he recommended at least 20 per cent reduction in the quantity of sand that can be mined this season. While MoEF has allowed only traditional miners to extract sand using dinghy or small boats, one has to check whether hundreds of permit holders working are really traditional miners. It is strikingly evident that they seldom use small boats, Prof. Mayya said.Gangadhara Gowda, professor and HoD, Aquatic Environment Management, College of Fisheries, Mangaluru, said that uncontrolled sand extraction has already affected the aquatic life by disturbing the breeding process. Maruvai (cockles) have almost become extinct on riverbeds where sand is being extracted. Increased penetration of saline water increases temperature inside the river, thereby affecting aquatic life.According to N.A. Madhyastha, environmental biologist from Udupi, west-flowing rivers were short and sand deposition was limited when compared to sand extraction. Uncontrolled extraction is affecting riverbeds, thereby leading to erosion of river banks. Depletion of sand at river mouths would enhance sea erosion, which is already affecting the coast and increased saline water penetration into the river would affect coastal biodiversity, he cautioned.Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner A.B. Ibrahim claimed that the administration was trying to balance both interests — requirement of sand as well as protection of environment. However, he did not respond to queries on how a “traditional” miner was determined and how the quantity was determined when NIT-K recommendation does not specify it.