http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/Cold-hard-numbers-that-don%E2%80%99t-add-up/article13981753.ece

hen 26-year-old Dhaniram comes back to the night-shelter in Nizamuddin after a hard day’s work of ferrying people in his cycle-rickshaw, he is not sure if he will get a place to sleep in the same shelter or not.Like Dhaniram there are many others in the city including beggars, daily wagers and others who have to face the daily struggle for space in the already overcrowded night shelters in the Capital.As the chill sets in, survival for the homeless has become even more difficult with limited amount of space available for them in the shelters.While the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB), the agency managing night shelters, claims that its 244 shelters across Delhi have a capacity to house 18,000 people and that the number of persons living in them currently is just half of that, people working on the ground have an entirely different story to tell.Sunil Kumar Aledia, who works with Centre for Holistic Development, an organisation working for the homeless, said: “On the DUSIB website you will see the capacity listed as more than 18,000 but actually there is no room for more than 5,000 people in the night shelters across the Capital. Currently the number of people staying in these shelters is over 9,000.”“We work in the field so we know the real condition. People are stuffed in the shelters, full beyond their capacity. There is definitely something wrong with the way the government calculates the capacity in these shelters,” he added.Delhi government has provided night shelters in the form of porta cabins, permanent shelters and tents. These shelters are managed by various non-government organisations.“According to National Urban Livelihood Mission guidelines, every homeless person living in the shelters should get at least 50 square feet of space but actually they are living in less than half of the space,” said Mr. Aledia.At most of these shelters people complain of un-hygienic conditions like dirty toilets, unwashed blankets, sheets and other issues. “There are enough blankets to keep us warm in the night but the problem is that the blankets and sheets are very dirty. Water supply is also an issue at times, because of which the toilets are dirty,” said a resident of the night shelter in Nehru Place.Lack of a basic meal is also one of the complaints that resonated across most night shelters.Though providing meals to people living in the night-shelter is not a mandate of the government, providing tea and rusk every morning is part of the winter action plan. The residents however complain that they have not been getting even tea in the shelters.The Delhi government, this year, constructed two night-shelters for the homeless at Geeta Ghat.Though they claim that one shelter has a capacity of 100 and another of 200, both are equal in size and cannot house more than 200 people in total. Around 47 tents have also been set-up across Delhi to provide shelter to the homeless.People are stuffed in the shelters, full beyond their capacity. There is definitely something wrong with the way the government calculates the capacity in these night sheltersSunil Kumar Aledia,Centre for Holistic DevelopmentGovt. is not required to provide meals, but winter action plans calls for tea and rusk every morning