http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/society/Colours-of-the-fiesta/article14010113.ece

Twelve thousand students; more than 200 events spread over 19 venues. As the Kerala School Arts Festival, Asia’s largest talent extravaganza, moves into top gear, there is frenetic activity behind the scenes. An army of tailors, designers and make-up artistes are on their toes to ensure that judges and spectators get to see participants at their best.Since marks are given for make-up and costume in the dance and theatre events, the best and experienced tailors, designers, costume rental outlets and make-up artistes are much in demand as the youngsters get ready to put their best foot forward.So, if you are a dancer, all roads lead to the leading costume rental outlets in the city, which have a mindboggling range of costumes classical dances, group dances, folk dances, Thiruvathirakali, Margamkali and Oppana. Glitzy dresses, ornaments and wigs are neatly arranged in Kalyanram Chamayam, one of the biggest and oldest in the business. Flouncy skirts, fancy blouses, glittering silks and multi-coloured skirts vie for attention on every shelf and counter.“The demand of the schools and contestants keep changing every year, especially for group dance, one of the prestigious and most competitive events of the festival. It is a competitive field and in order to maintain the secrecy many schools have their own tailors who make costumes as per the suggestions of the respective dance teacher. Even then we get regular bulk orders from schools,” says T.A. Kalyanaraman, managing partner of Chamayam, near Pattom junction.The tailoring work is done at the main shop of Chamayam in Thrissur where they have an in-house group of designers and tailors work round the clock to make new designs.Costumes and accessories for a Bharatanatyam dancer would cost at least Rs. 1,000, while dresses for group dances start from Rs. 500 and can go up to Rs. 1,500.Even then participants, their parents and finicky teachers try to dream up new costumes for the big event.Every effort counts. “Many parents are willing to spend any amount on costumes for Bharatanatyam, Mohiniyattam, Kerala Nadanam and Kuchipudi and this year also our hands are full. Last year we had made a new pattern for group dancers of a school in the city, this year it has been rented out to another school. The demand is always for something different,” says S. Anilkumar, who runs Souparnika, a tailoring and rental outlet in Poojappura.In addition to the dancers, participants of group competitions such as group song, patriotic song, orchestra and national anthem, also clamour for dresses that catch the eye.“This year I made two different costumes for a city school. It was for their students taking part in group song and patriotic song competitions. If one was a half-sari with umbrella skirt, the other chose plain kurtas to be worn with Patialas. We also get orders to stitch lachas for group competitions,” says Subha Unnikrishnan, who has a tailoring unit at Gowreesapattom.Make-up artistes are also much sort after by youngsters competing in various dance events. Karamana E. Muthukrishnan, one of the veterans in the city, will be doing the make-up contestants in Bharatanatyam, Kuchipudi and drama. “We get an opportunity to experiment at times, especially for events such as mime. Earlier we used only black, white and red on the contestants’ faces. Now we have started using other colours as well with the teams turning out in multi-colour costumes,” says Muthukrishnan who has been active in the field for the last 25 years.