http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Vijayawada/Colour-and-culture-on-display-at-R-Day-fete/article14022346.ece

A splash of colour, a dash of culture and patriotic zeal marked the 67th Republic Day celebrations across the 13 districts of ‘Sunrise’ Andhra Pradesh.Unfurling of the Tricolour, R-Day parade, presentation of meritorious awards and cultural programmes were commonplace. In Ongole, the police parade ground was the cynosure of all eyes where Collector Sujatha Sharma unfurled the national flag and inspected an impressive parade along with SP Ch. Srikanth. Ms Sharma highlighted developmental projects and welfare schemes being implemented to put the district on the path of progress. Watched by over 1,000 people, more than 500 children from different schools in the district portrayed the rich cultural heritage through dance.Freedom fighters Karavati Venkateswarulu, Aswath Narayana and Tanguturi Prakasam Pantulu’s grandson T. Gopalakrishna were among those who were honoured on the occasion.In Kurnool, Collector Ch. Vijayamohan presented Uttama Seva Pathakam to G. Ramanna, a constable of Ullindakonda police station and Seva Pathakams to four head constables and a constable as part of celebrations. He presented Seva Pathakams to Armed Reserve head constables A. Adinarayana, M. Sriramulu and K.C. Ayyanna, head constable of Maddikera police station S. Abdul Kareem and constable P. Sridhar working in Kurnool District Training Centre in the police parade grounds. SP A. Ravikrishna, Additional SP T. Chandrasekhar Reddy, Joint Collector C. Harikiran and District Revenue Officer G.S. Gangadhar Goud were present.After unfolding the flag and taking guard of honour, Chittoor Collector Siddharth Jain, in his address, said the ongoing Hadri-Neeva works would be expedited and the project would be completed in time.He said agriculture, health and education were top priorities of the government. The Collector also presented appreciation letters to the government employees in recognition of their services. He distributed assets worth Rs 364 crore to beneficiaries of various welfare schemes. SP G. Srinivas, Additional SP Ratna and senior officials were present.In Tirupati, an impressive parade by the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) and police department officials hogged the limelight. TTD Executive Officer D. Sambasiva Rao took part in the celebrations at parade grounds behind the TTD administrative building.Mr. Rao distributed meritorious certificates and medals to19 senior officers and 184 staff members for excellence in work.Later, cultural programmes by students from TTD-run institutions, including traditional dance, yoga performances and magic show by TTD’s security guard Tiruppal, enthralled the audience.At Armed Reserve Parade Grounds, police officials presented an impressive parade. Tirupati Urban SP Gopinath Jatti and other police officials gave prizes and appreciation certificate for excellence in their work.The famous hill temple of Lord Venkateswara at Tirumala symbolised national integration as devotees from different parts of the country exchanged greetings. Overcoming linguistic barriers, they greeted each other with a Bharat mata ki jai . TTD’s Joint Executive Officer K.S. Srinivasa Raju recalled the sacrifices made by freedom fighters and urged the employees to follow their steps.Heads of all educational institutions, government offices, political parties, Chamber of Commerce, and trade unions, unfurled the National Flag and pledged to work towards upholding the Constitutional rights in Vizianagaram.The DCC president Y. Adiraju grabbed the occasion to flay the TDP government for denying citizens of their fundamental rights. State Panchayat Raj Chamber vice-president M. Appala Naidu and his men cuffed their hands using black ribbons and displayed placards demanding that Janma Bhoomi committees be scrapped and 73{+r}{+d}Constitution (Amendment) for Gram Swaraj be implemented.