http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/society/Colour-me%E2%80%A6/article14014033.ece

The other day some plaster fell like confetti from the ceiling of our drawing room, festooning my head with unerring precision. Your natural instinct when you are bombarded from above by alien objects is to identify the source. I looked up, a very foolish thing to do, as I discovered in hindsight, for I got the aftershock bang on my face and a tiny particle entered my eye. Never do this when a bird decides to practise target bombing on you either; the consequences are eye-popping, but that’s another story.After getting the mote out I pronounced, ‘Delayed reaction. I knew this was coming. No plaster can remain impervious to all those loud guffaws yesterday when our friends came over.’ One of them had patented a uniquely explosive laughter that started in his belly, and then rumbled its way up like an active volcano, gathering strength and momentum during its journey to finally erupt in an uproarious blast that had the power to shatter glass window panes. We have strong iron grills in the front room – foresight here – leaving the ceiling to face the music.‘Rubbish!’ my husband retorted. ‘It was because of all that rainwater on the terrace. It’s been raining the whole year and I’d been expecting the ceiling to collapse on us any time.’ I looked at him, surprised. Exaggeration is my department and if he resorts to it, something has really agitated him. ‘No time to lose,’ he exclaimed and rang up the contractor who reached the house even before the call was completed – he had been waiting for the summons to take up from where he had left off ever since he had undertaken the painting of the gate and the compound wall a month back.Now began the process that resembled the story of the camel getting his nose in the Arab’s tent. Once the rusty ladder was discovered and cajoled into service, the contractor shimmied up for a close look. Identifying the problem, he shouted – ‘Clogged drain pipe, water retention, seepage, corrosion, weakening of the concrete. The terrace must be re-concreted. Leave it all to me.’Sacks of cement arrived and migrant labourers too. In fact, we were woken up in the morning by the battering on the locked gate. The contractor was there, with the labourers in tow, one of whom was already removing his shirt preparatory to changing into his working gear even before the gate was opened. What zeal, I thought, suitably impressed by the work ethics.The repair crew, bringing pandemonium in its wake, took over. There was hammering and scraping on the terrace punctuated by ear-splitting instructions from the overseer and after the debris was cleared, the re-laying of the terrace floor began – two coats of concrete and whatever, we were told, strong enough to withstand carpet bombing. From that to painting the shabby terrace was a small step, and we agreed to the front of the house being painted too, the cementing having left rivulets of white running down the walls.‘What colour?’ asked the contractor, eagerly pointing out shades of ghastly green, blue, pink and yellow on the shade card. ‘The house should look nice and bright.’ Unhappy with our sombre choice of black and white for the compound wall and grey for the gate, he hoped we would make amends for such aberrations.‘Grey,’ we chorused, ‘with a dark grey border.’ He hid his disappointment with a sunny smile and responded gallantly, ‘smart colour!’ His not to reason why, his but to smile and shrug it by. ‘And the grills?’ he continued, ‘they are rusty.’ Now putty in the contractor’s hands, my husband said with a sigh, ‘black and white.’When I came to the front later, I was treated to a scene that was right out of a circus - two legs belonging to an invisible man were dangling over the terrace, a very visible second person was acrobatically painting from an upside down position, a third was ballet dancing on the sill and a fourth was performing a delicate balancing act on a wobbling step ladder while cleaning the inner roof of the car shed.From the front to the sides, then to the back of the house was a natural progression. In no time the painters were inside, painting the doors and windows. ‘Green for the windows,’ the contractor made a last ditch effort. ‘White,’ my husband declared, determined to show who was boss. The contractor smiled and asked, ‘so what about the roof of the bathroom outside? It’s falling apart.’[khyrubutter@yahoo.com](A fortnightly column by the city–based writer, academic and author of the Butterfingers series)