http://www.thehindu.com/features/homes-and-gardens/Colours-to-rule-the-new-year/article14001624.ece

Colour trend forecasters and industry leaders have listed out the colours of their choice, ones they feel will be the star of every interior décor show in 2016.Dulux’s Colour of 2016: Cherished Gold.Why? The paintmaker wanted a colour that would connect with the overall trend of looking both ways. Cherished Gold is the ‘golden hour’ of Dark and Light; it’s the gold that appears in Heritage and Future – both in the paintings of old masters and also in modern design trends.The metallic shade follows the on-trend Copper Blush, which was Dulux’s Colour of 2015.Tone: Warm and subtle.Sico’s Colour of 2016: Buckwheat Yellow.Why? The Canadian paint maker has chosen Buckwheat Yellow as this golden yellow shade is reminiscent of a bygone era. The colour is reminiscent of a less complex time in history and of people’s increasing desire to return to cocooning.You can expect walls, furnishings, accessories and hardware to have the golden touch in the year ahead,” Sico announced. Tone: Deep and lustrous.Benjamin Moore’s Colour of 2016: Simply White.Why? Variations of white have claimed five of Benjamin Moore’s top 10 bestselling paint colours. No wonder the paint maker has chosen a shade of white as its colour for the coming year. White is not just a design trend, it is a design essential. The popularity of white, the necessity of white, the mystique of white is quantifiable in our industry.” We agree. Tone: Transcendent and classic.Kelly-Moore Paints’ Colour of 2016: Horizon Gray.Why? There’s no getting away from gray in interior décor. The results of Kelly-Moore’s Colour of the Year 2016 designer survey, which was presented to interior designers and members of the American Society of Interior Designers, are in. Horizon Gray encompasses this notable colour shift, while maintaining its ability to work well with previous colour trends,” the paint maker said.All eyes are now on Pantone, the market leader in colour trend forecasting and colour insights, which usually names its colour by mid-December. Pantone’s choice for 2015 was Marsala, a deep-bodied and seductive burgundy shade. Will Pantone buck the colour trend and name a bright shade?