http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Colour-me-purple/article14006984.ece

What do you do after your band has been through a near-death bus accident? Write a kick-ass album, and have fun while you’re at it. That definitely seems to be American stoner/heavy metal band Baroness’ motto on their latest colour-themed album Purple. The follow-up to 2012’s critically-acclaimed double album Yellow & Green continues to push Baroness into the mainstream’s arms, and they’re ready to take it on just like their peers in American prog/stoner band Mastodon.After being patched up from all their injuries, the band – comprising frontman John Baizley, guitarist Peter Adams, bassist Nick Jost and drummer Sebastian Thomson – aim to please with Purple. There’s something good and not-so-good about that. You can enjoy most of the good old Baroness on songs such as “Chlorine & Wine” and “Shock Me”. Baizley yells on “Chlorine & Wine”, “Please don’t lay me down/ Under the rocks where I found/ My place in the ground/ A home for the fathers and sons.”That’s clearly painting the image of a nightmare that the band once underwent. But the bad news is that it comes across as a bit too play-it-safe at times to really offer anything new to fans. The prog influence combined with Baizley’s unforgettable vocal melodies is the way Baroness have got to where they are now. “Try to Disappear” and the opening track “Morningstar” kick the album into gear, but it’s songs like the too-short instrumental “Fugue” that grabs our attention, while Baizley channels the turmoil of recovering from the bus accident on “Kerosene” and “Desperation Burns”.Purple is definitely heavy, but if you know the likes of Mastodon, then there’s certainty that Baroness are no longer just metal. There’s even a hint of pop on songs like “Iron Bell” and a baroque-ish influence on “If I Had to Wake Up (Would You Stop the Rain)”, but the variation of the entire record clearly means that Baroness are on their way to the top with this particular sound.