http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/Cold-conditions-prevail-in-North-rain-in-some-parts/article14009279.ece

North India experienced cold conditions on Tuesday with rain and thundershower occurring in some parts of Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan, even as fog affected road and rail traffic.In the national Capital, day temperature settled at 15.7 degrees Celsius, two notches below normal, while foggy conditions led to cancellation of 51 trains.While flight operations were reported to be normal, 19 Delhi-bound trains were running behind schedule.“The maximum and minimum temperature today settled at 15.7 degrees Celsius, two notches below normal and 8.9 degrees Celsius, a notch above normal,” a MeT official said.According to Northern Railway, 19 Delhi-bound trains including premier services like Howrah-New Delhi Duronto Express, Sealdah Duronto and Kanpur Shatabdi were running late by several hours due to bad weather condition. There were cancellations of total 51 trains including those announced earlier.In Uttar Pradesh, light to moderate rain and thundershower occurred in some parts while night temperature rose in various places. Nazibabad recorded U.P.’s lowest minimum temperature at 4.5 degrees Celsius.The first rain of the season brought cheer to the farmers of the State who hoped that the showers would benefit their crops. Mehrauni recorded 2 cm of rain and Lalitpur and Atara 1 cm each. Moderate to dense fog occurred at isolated places, affecting road and rail traffic.In view of rain, the administration in Lucknow ordered closure of all schools up to class VI till January 23 while classes above VI will start after 9 a.m. In Amethi, all basic schools have been closed till January 21 and secondary schools to start from 10 a.m.Meanwhile, bright winter sun provided much needed relief to the residents of Kashmir division where night temperature improved slightly but continued to stay below the freezing point. The minimum temperature in Jammu and Kashmir’s summer capital Srinagar marked an increase of almost two degrees to settle at minus 2.3 degrees Celsius.After yesterday’s overcast conditions, the sun shone bright this morning, providing relief to the residents from the bone chilling cold and paving way for resumption of normal activities early in the day.Residents of Ladakh region also heaved a sigh of relief as night temperature rose by a few degrees. Kargil recorded a low of minus 11.4 degrees Celsius against Saturday’s minus 12.0, while the minimum recorded at Leh town was minus 11.1 degrees Celsius against minus 13.0 the previous night.Famous ski resort of Gulmarg in north Kashmir recorded a drop of one degree in the minimum temperature which settled at minus 6.0 degrees Celsius. In Pahalgam, it was minus 4.4. Kashmir is in the midst of the 40-day harshest phase of winter, which began on December 21 and will continue till the end of this month. Known as Chillai-Kalan in local parlance, chances of snowfall are usually most frequent and maximum during this period.In Rajasthan, cold conditions continued to prevail even as some areas received rain. Bundi and Tonk received 2 mm and 1.6 mm of rainfall yesterday.Sikar recorded the state’s lowest temperature at 6 degrees Celsius, followed by Sriganganagar 6.6 degrees Celsius. Jaisalmer, Churu, Bikaner, Pilani, Jaipur and Ajmer recorded minimum of 7, 7.3, 7.5, 7.7, 9.8 and 11.4 degrees Celsius, respectively.Fog persisted in northern region, affecting train services. As many as 11 trains including New Delhi-Ajmer and Jammu Tawi-Ajmer Express were running late by up to 4 hours 20 minutes, a North-Western Railway spokesperson said.In Punjab and Haryana too, cold conditions persisted even as minimum temperatures hovered around normal levels in most parts of both the States. Mist and fog affected road and rail traffic in the region.Amritsar in Punjab was the coldest place in both States as it recorded its low at 3.2 degrees Celsius. Ludhiana and Patiala recorded minimum at 7.6 and 7.9 degrees Celsius, respectively. In Haryana, Ambala recorded low at 7.5 degrees Celsius while minimum temperatures in Hisar and Narnaul settled at 7.8 degrees Celsius and 6.5 degrees Celsius, respectively. – PTI