http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Collector%E2%80%99s-humane-approach-brings-cheer-to-the-aged/article13993621.ece

Villagers in their 80s and suffering from cataract are a happy lot with removal of technical glitches in receiving their social pension and provisions from ration shops in the drought-prone Tamballapalle constituency in Chittoor district with the concept of ‘Reversal analysis’ mooted by District Collector Siddarth Jain giving a positive result.During the last two months, hundreds of the aged were not given their social pension or ration in the district on the ground that their fingerprints and irises failed to match with the bio-metric system. Though panchayat secretaries were authorised to disburse pension to the aged at their doorstep, poor internet connectivity made it not possible.In this backdrop, District Collector Siddarth Jain reached Kurabalakota mandal, a remote area on the Chittoor-Karnataka border, 150 km from here, on Friday and launched the ‘reverse analysis’ to study various problems faced by the rural people.Mr. Jain gave a patient hearing to the invalid pensioners trying to match their fingerprints and irises on the e-pass machines. He instructed the officials to solve the problem by allowing match with irises in case of any glitch with fingerprints and vice versa. Interestingly, the Collector came across an 80-plus man with both options not working as his fingerprints were splayed and irises covered by cataract. Problem with fingerprints was also found among some aging villagers given to hard labour.Dealers go abscondingKnowing that the Collector had come to Kurabalakota for inspection, some ration shop dealers closed their shops and went absconding. This prompted Mr. Jain to make a night halt at a nearby engineering college where he had a review meeting with the mandal-level heads of various departments on the developmental works and public issues in their region.On Saturday morning, he resumed his inspection and came across the same problem with bio-metric system while distributing ration to the beneficiaries.Directive to staffMr. Jain told the panchayat secretaries and revenue staff to adopt a humane approach in solving their problems. They were sought to prepare a list of social pensioners and ration card holders coming under the technical-glitch category. “Not even a single pensioner would be left out,” he observed.Speaking to The Hindu , the Collector said that problems related to Aadhar ceding would also be rectified.Concept of ‘Reverse analysis’ launched by Jain yielding positive result