http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Combating-winter-trot-by-trot/article14022786.ece

Trotters are meant for all those who want to combat winter in style. Popularly called paya or paye, this traditional dish is a time-tested, time consuming affair. The cooking is a long and slow process, letting the meat cook through, fall off the bone and almost melt in your mouth giving a distinct taste and rich meaty gravy to the dish. In the days gone by, paye used to be made in a big degh on a wood fire lit all night. Now, of course, people do it over their gas stove. Either way, paye need slow fire, consistent flame and lots patience.Paya curry would be a heavenly treat for those living in cold areas. Goat trotters, another name for paya curry, is healthy and is a great main course served with kulcha/plain naan/tandoor bread. It is usually cooked and relished in winters in Indian subcontinent. Paya curry is full of protein and rich in calories. It makes you feel full and keeps you warm in chilly days. However, people having certain conditions such as high cholesterol and uric acid should avoid it as it has high fat contents.GOAT TROTTER (PAYA CURRY)Vital StatsServes: ThreePreparation time: 30 minutesCooking time: Six hoursIngredientsFive to six goats trotters (ask the butchers to chop them in half or smaller chunks that will fit in your saucepan)2 bay leaves6 to 7 black peppercorns3 tablespoon vegetable oil2 small onions finely chopped2 green chillies8-9 cloves of garlic2 inch piece of ginger1-1/2 teaspoon Kashmiri chilli powder (or a mild paprika powder would be a good alternative)4 tablespoon whisked yoghurt1 tablespoon of shan paya masalaSalt to taste2 tablespoon roughly chopped coriander2 tablespoon roughly chopped mintJuice of 1 lemon for the spice powder2 tablespoon coriander seeds1 tablespoon sesame seeds100 gms freshly grated coconut (or you can use desiccated)5-7 green cardamom pods4-5 black pepper corns5 clovesMethodIn a stock pot add all the cleaned and cut trotters along with the bay leaves and peppercorns. Add water covering all the trotters; about 3.5 litres should be good. Bring the paya to a boil and simmer gently for four hours (Yes I did say this was slow cooking all the way!)For the powder, add all the ingredients to a frying pan and dry roast the spices on medium heat. Stir them around for 2-3 minutes until you can see the colour start to change. Turn the heat off and let them cool slightly. Now tip them into a coffee blender grinding to form a coarse powder. Set aside.Blend the ginger and garlic to a fine paste too with a little water and set aside. Once the paya has been boiling for four hours turn the heat off. Strain the stock and keep the paya aside. At this stage the paya might be slightly gelatinous and sticky which means it needs a bit more cooking time along with the spices in the gravy.Heat oil in a large heavy-based sauce pan. Add onions along with green chillies. Fry the onions and let the chillies infuse their flavour in the oil. Soften the onions on medium heat for 5 minutes. Now add ginger and garlic paste. Stir well cooking out the raw flavour for a further three minutes. Add the roasted masalas in the paste along with the shan masala and fry mixing well for 5-7 minutes until you see the oil leave the sides of the pan.Add the chilli powder and stir. Lower the heat and add in the yoghurt a tablespoon at a time. Stir well to make sure it does not curdle but enhances the flavours to form a rich gravy with all the spices. (If you need to take it off the heat do so for a minute while you mix the yoghurt)Add the paya to the gravy and put the heat back to medium, coating all the pieces in the spice mix for a couple of minutes. Ladle in most of the stock and bring the paya curry to a boil. (Leave a couple of ladles of the stock aside for later)Simmer gently for a further hour. Make sure to stir it every 15 minutes. If you find the gravy is too thick you can add a little more of the left over stock.Season with salt and juice of a lemon.To serve garnish with lots of fresh coriander and julienne cut ginger.A rich dish like this needs really soft bread to soak in all the flavours and roomali rotis work perfectly though you can even eat it with kulchas, naan or even chapattis.