http://www.thehindu.com/features/downtown/Commuters-want-more-trains-from-Ambattur-to-Thiruvanmiyur/article14001525.ece

Commuters from the western parts of the city including Korattur, Ambattur and Avadi want more local trains to be operated to Thiruvanmiyur as many professionals travel to the southern parts of the city on work.Many software professionals find it difficult to reach their offices located on Rajiv Gandhi Salai and in Taramani and Velachery.“Suburban trains are operated mainly as connecting services. The last few years, the frequency of local trains have been increased,” said a railway official.However, passengers want the Railways to introduce more direct trains to places such as Velachery. These direct trains are operated to Chennai Beach, from where they are operated on the MRTS line.At present, only one suburban train service between Tiruvallur and Velachery is being operated, mainly during the morning rush hour. The existing Tiruvallur-Velachery line was planned between Arakkonam and Velachery. But the service is being operated from Tiruvallur only.At present, passengers have to get down at Chennai Central suburban railway station or Beach station to board the MRTS trains. This takes time and creates a chaotic situation during the rush hour.“Often, we have to rush from the Central station to Park station so that we do not miss the train bound for Velachery. Also, with the ongoing Metrorail work, stations are crowded,” said B. Santhosh Kumar, a commuter from Korattur.Every day, on an average, around 260 trips are being made by suburban trains on the western rail route between Chennai Central and Arakkonam. After Chennai Beach – Tambaram section, the Chennai Central – Arakkonam, around 80 km from the city, is the busiest suburban rail route in the city with around three lakh commuters travelling every day.There are many engineering colleges located in the southern suburbs.“An additional local train between Avadi and Velachery at 6.40 a.m. will be of great help,” said T. Gunaseelan, a commuter from Ambattur.Railway officials said representations for such additional services had been made earlier.However, the decision has to be taken at the higher level. 