http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/Common-mobility-cards-begin-to-roll/article13992728.ece

The much-delayed project of introducing “common mobility cards” for users of public transport may finally see some progress. With the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) giving green signal for installation of e-ticketing machines in 200 buses of its fleet, the Delhi Metro is now hoping for things to move quickly with regard to the integrated transport ticketing system.According to the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), the e-ticketing plan of the DTC is the “first step” towards the mega-project of common mobility cards. “So far, the DMRC is the only transport system in the Capital which is fully equipped to support such cards. Now that the DTC is coming up with the e-ticketing system, things are expected to move swiftly,” said a senior metro official. Common mobility card had been proposed in 2010 during the Commonwealth Games but due to financial reasons, the project did not take off.Sources have indicated that the Reserve Bank of India which had expressed its reservation over the project because of the scope of money laundering with multiple agencies coming under the ambit of the common mobility card has given in-principle approval to the proposal. Due to the complexities involved in the process, experts suggest the project may take a year more for its implementation.The project planned for the Capital is a part of the “multi-modal transit system” which has been a key factor while designing and constructing the Phase-III of the Delhi metro. “Considering all these mandates and decisions, UTTIPEC has proposed to plan, design and retrofit 2-km influence zone of all Phase-III metro stations,” added the official. “Once ETMs are installed in all DTC buses, we will move towards common mobility cards for travelling in both DTC and Metro, which will be done on priority basis,” a DTC official had said while announcing the e-ticketing facility lat week. In the first phase of the project, 200 buses of Rajghat and Rohini bus depots will be equipped with ETMs by the end of January. Thereafter, the facility will be introduced in the rest of the DTC fleet by June.