http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/Compensation-demand-for-Rohith%E2%80%99s-kin/article14010599.ece

: Students from Hyderabad Central University (HCU), who studied with the dalit research scholar Rohith Vemula have demanded Rs. 5 crore compensation and a home for the dead student’s family.The students, who are a part of a 14-member Joint Action Committee for Social Justice of Hyderabad University are in the Capital to highlight the issues that led to Rohith taking the extreme step.Kiran Kumar, a research scholar at the HCU and a member of the JAC told The Hindu : “What has happened to Rohith is a gross violation of human rights. Therefore we have requested for the intervention of authorities like the National Commission for Scheduled Caste (NCSC), National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) and Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD). We have a list of demands that we are going to present in front of these authorities.”The demands include compensation of Rs. 5 crore to Rohith's family, employment in government sector to a kin, and a home for the family. The students have also demanded that suspension of four other dalit research scholars be revoked.“We also want that criminal proceedings should be initiated against Vice Chancellor Prof. Podile Apparao, Bandaru Dattatreya, N. Ramachandra Rao, Krishna Chaitanya, Nandanam Susheel Kumar and Nandanam Diwakar. Dattatreya and Apparao should also be sacked from their respective positions,” Kumar added.The students have also alleged that a video doing the rounds on social media that shows Rohith talking against “saffron” was shot during the student election campaign and not a few days before the suicide.“The video where Rohith is seen saying that he will tear apart anything saffron that he sees, was shot during the student election campaign and not a day before he committed suicide. It is being wrongly promoted like just to spoil his image in front of people,” said another student from HCU.“BJP is trying to project Rohith as an anti-national. He is a scholar, an extremely learned student, a genius. There are definite attempts to malign his image,” he added.Left-leaning outfit Dalit Soshan Mukti Manch (DSMM) also supported the demand terming Velamu’s suicide as “national tragedy of the education system”.Rohith Vemula allegedly hanged himself to death 15 days after he was expelled from his hostel along with four other researchers.