http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/Coming-home-to-their-art/article13986407.ece

The chaos and traffic snarls outside sabhas are in contrast with the serenity that prevails inside. Among the audience are many enthusiastic youngsters enjoying the raga-swara treats. Many of whom juggle academics and art efficiently. There are also those who travel to Chennai from the UK, U. S. and other countries to be a part of this global fest. Besides local talent, the Season offers a stage for the gifted NRIs, for whom a nod from the discerning rasikas is like a stamp of approval.Indeed, for these performers, the NRI music festival is an opportunity which they make the most of.One wonders if their accent will come in the way of conveying the essence of Carnatic compositions, where enunciation is crucial.But you are proved wrong on hearing Sudarshan Mohan’s Varali and Khambodi, brimming with rasa and bhava. “When I come for the season, performances are as important as my practice sessions with Guru R. Suryaprakash,” says Sudarshan, adding that he works hard on his pronunciation and fine-tuning his singing. “Living in the U.S, I got into Carnatic music quite by chance,” says Sudarshan, who participated in the Hamsadhwani NRI music festival, this year. “I was a part of Cleveland Sundaram’s Sustaining Sampradaya group. Kids from all over the U.S. apply for this programme, and if selected, are trained in classical music through Skype and live streaming by senior musicians. I attended the Cleveland Thyagaraja Aradhana and got interested in music. It was at Sundaram mama’s invitation that I came here, in 2009, and performed with the group. Since then, I’ve been pursuing music seriously. My first experience of the season was in 2013.”Sudarshan explains how his best experience was much before the season commenced, when he spent almost the whole of December with his guru, learning extensively. He also elaborates on how it felt to perform in the sabhas, despite being a student. “Apart from my nine concerts, I also spent a lot of time listening to well-known vocalists. While it is exhilarating being here, it is also challenging when senior musicians and seasoned rasikas walk in to listen to you.”Bharatanatyam dancer Ramya Ramnarayan, from New Jersey, explains how coming to Chennai and performing here is a dream come true and keeps her connected with her roots and the arts.This year, she and Dushyant Sridhar came up with an unusual programme, ‘Katha Nrithyam’, where they weaved a story through discourse and dance. She further elaborates on how NRI artists come to Chennai during the season for a host of reasons, apart from performing. “As someone who is also a teacher, I feel that this city has a lot to offer in terms of learning and fine-tuning the art. This time, my son, for instance, came here just to watch performances, and attend kalaripayattu and music classes. Though we have experts there too, learning in Chennai is a different experience.”Deepa Vivekanandan and Divya Balasubramaniam who visit Chennai from Maryland, for concerts, find it refreshing when they come here for the music season. “We make it a point to come here twice — during the summer and for the season,” says Divya.However, the sisters admit that while the summer brings them a bigger audience, performing during the Season is prestigious. Off-season concerts, help them gain important slots in Marghazi.The sisters, who are also teachers, feel that such music festivals are instrumental in keeping youngsters motivated. “Not only do they benefit from their performances, they also have the chance to meet and interact with their peers and top musicians,” explains Deepa.Janhavi, who has had her first brush with the season, is elated at the experience. She points out how exciting it is to perform in front of a knowledgeable audience.As the season draws to a close, the anklets are put away and so is the sruti petti. And the visitors prepare to fly back home, carrying with them a bagful of memories.