http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/Conquests-of-high-order/article14012134.ece

It is an inspiring story of a boy who had so much energy that he was always getting into trouble. “I was always busy getting even,” he says. His brother and the Police Chief channelized his energies by turning him to the running track and soon he was representing the country (America) in the Olympic Games. So he went to Berlin. Though he came 8th in the race, he covered the last lap very fast and set a new record. So much so that Hitler had wanted to meet him and hailed him as ‘the boy with a fast finish’ when he shook his hands. He was Louis Zamperini who died last year at the age of 98.Louis Zamperini could not pursue his running further as war broke out and he joined the army as a bombardier where he earned the name ‘lucky Louis’ for being able to cheat death.And then in 1943 when Zamperini was going on a search and rescue mission he says, “The only plane available was a green hornet…it shouldn’t go on a mission because it could not carry a bomb load, we were reluctant to take it, but we had to…” Eight hundred feet above the sea, the mission turned deadly and the plane crashed into the ocean. “The highest emotion of the human experience is going down a plane knowing you are going to die, but out of 11 men aboard the plane, three of us survived and we were struggling for ever to get to the surface; oil, blood, gasoline…I threw up everything on reaching the surface,” says Zamperini.“The sun is your friend early in the morning when you are cold and then it is brutal for the rest of the day. When you are on a life raft at sea, it is much worse than being in a foxhole…when you have nowhere else to turn, your atheism is not going to help you, you turn and look up and that is all we did on the raft, pray morning noon and night….there are some things that are not a part of our food chain but when it is a question of survival, you eat it.” Zamperini says they ate fish initially but even ate albatross later.After 27 days a fighter plane bombed at them, “Sharks below and bombs from the top,” laughs Zameprini and he goes on to say that after 47 days on the South Pacific, they saw the shore…the Japanese shore…Zamperini weighed 30 kilos when he landed there and was taken as prisoner, “The worst part of being in a cell is when the marines line up to see you because they have never seen prisoners, 75-80 men line up and everyone either swears at you, spits at you … we were starved, they would throw rice to the floor and you have to spend hours picking it mixed with dust…”On three occasions Zamperini was treated as a guinea pig for testing out some drugs. After 43 days of captivity, Zamperini was moved to a more difficult camp where he was tortured by a man known as The Bird…it is so difficult to recount the torture he went through that brave Zamperini could not talk about it.War ended in September 1945 and Zamperini came back to the U.S. and even while he was being celebrated, fell in love and got married, “Now I was married I got a little girl, but I could not shake off those demons. I had nightmares, woke up screaming and imagining I am strangling Bird and one night I actually tried strangling my wife…All I did was drink…and have nightmares”.When his wife threatened to leave him, Zamperini accompanied her to a sermon, in order to do anything to save his marriage. “Christian friends were all over me and I was reluctant to be with them…I believed in Christ, but I did not want to surrender here…the Bible says men prefer darkness to light…maybe that is the best description. Then my mind went back to all I had been through…all those thousands and thousands of prayers to get me out of the war and saying to God that then I will serve you. And I thought I came out of the war and never even thought of those prayers…” That night changed Zamperini’s life. After that he never had any nightmare. “…1949 till now…no nightmare, it was some kind of miracle.”In forgiveness, Zamperini conquered new heights as he went back to Japan and forgave all those who had tortured him…Bird however did not meet him.sudhamahi@gmail.comWeb link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wRJrS8Vsn_Y