http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/Congress-plans-to-explain-city-development-to-voters/article13984386.ece

The Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) leaders plunged work to face the GHMC elections if the hectic activity at Gandhi Bhavan is any indication.For the past few days, the TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, working president Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka, CLP leader K.Jana Reddy, Leader of Opposition in Council Md. Ali Shabbir and Greater Hyderabad Congress unit president Danam Nagender are making it a point to address a series of meeting to prepare the workers for the much touted elections.On Tuesday, top leaders of the party attended the GHCC election planning committee meeting where speakers said the developmental and welfare programmes taken up by the then Congress Government should be explained to the voters.Mr. Jana Reddy claimed that it was the Congress Government that had developed the Twin Cities and said the leaders should go to the voters with the plea that if they are given a chance, they would ensure all round development of the City.The leaders also attended a meeting of the manifesto committee where the key issues pertaining to the Twin Cities was discussed. The party is also planning big to use social media to reach out to the educated lot.Danam confidentCongress city chief D. Nagender stressed for the need of a coordinated effort from the rank and file for the party to fare well in the coming elections. “Congress is placed well to score the maximum and I am sure we will come together and not only win maximum wards but also the Mayoral seat,” he said.Court orderMeanwhile, a division Bench of the High Court comprising of Acting Chief Justice D.B. Bhosale and Justice S.V. Bhatt on Tuesday asked the Election Commission of India to respond to the issue of 7.9 lakhs of voters who were declared as duplicate voters in GHMC area by Thursday.The Bench was dealing with a case filed by Mahesh Goud who said that GHMC polls will be held as per the voters list finalised by Election Commission of India. Now the ECI had given green signal for the GHMC polls with nearly eight lakhs bogus voters. He sought a direction to the ECI to delete these voters and then publish final list which will be the basis for the GHMC polls. The case will be listed on Thursday.