http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Concern-over-cattle-infected-by-black-quarter-in-Arkalgud-village/article13998539.ece

Black quarter, an infectious bacterial disease that affects cattle, has been traced at Bittagodanahalli, a village near Santhemarur in Arakalgudu taluk. In the last three-four days, 10 head of cattle have been found infected by the disease, and two of them died.Officials of the Department of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services came to know about the black quarter on Tuesday. Deputy Director of the department, C.T. Dharmappa, and others visited the village on Tuesday and took stock of the situation. According to the village residents, more than 15 livestock had died in the village in the last one week. However, doctors did not have any clue over the reasons for the death.“When we visited the village, people said that many cattle had died in the last few days. Of course, after examination, we noticed that 10 head of the livestock were affected by black quarter disease. It is an infectious disease caused by bacteria. In all, we treated 10 such animals.However, two of them died during the course of treatment. The remaining eight have recovered,” the official told The Hindu on Wednesday.The officials conducted a vaccination drive in the village to prevent the disease from spreading further. All the 380 cattle in the village were vaccinated. “Initially, around 10 per cent of people in the village were not ready to get their cattle vaccinated. They agreed after being convinced about its importance. We have deployed our staff to the village to keep a constant vigil on the effect of the vaccination for 21 days, the time that the vaccination requires to get activated,” he said.Spread of the disease has left the villagers worried. Death of cattle prompted them to bring the matter to the notice of A. Manju, Arkalgud MLA, who is also the Minister for Animal Husbandry.The Minister instructed the officials to visit the village and take corrective measures. The department has procured Rs. 10,000-worth medicine for the cattle. The staff at the veterinary hospital at Santhemarur have been asked to visit the village at regular intervals.Officials of the Department of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services visited the village on Jan. 12They conducted a vaccination drive, in spite of resistance by about 10 per cent of people in the villageIt requires 21 days for the medicine to get activated, say veterinary doctorsRs. 10,000-worth medicine has been procured to ensure prompt vaccination of affected animals