http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Mangalore/Congress-will-emerge-victorious-in-panchayat-polls-says-Ramanath-Rai/article14017580.ece

District in-charge Minister B. Ramanath Rai on Saturday exuded confidence that Congress would return to power in zilla and taluk panchayats in the district. “Though the BJP fielded only one candidate in the recent Council polls from Dakshina Kannada-Udupi constituency, its candidate did not secure the expected number of votes. There was considerable cross voting and this is the first defeat of BJP,” he remarked.Mr. Rai was speaking at a meeting of party workers from Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts to felicitate K. Pratapchandra Shetty, MLC.He said though BJP had been in power in Dakshina Kannada ZP for two terms, it failed to deliver the goods – be it during BJP rule at the State level or during the present regime. The party failed to use the grants given by then UPA government to the panchayat and now it has failed to get adequate grants from the Centre though NDA is in power, Mr. Rai lambasted.The former Legislative Council Chairman V.R. Sudarshan said it was the Congress which had ensured devolution of power to local self governments.He urged workers to work united for party’s victory. All India Congress Committee General Secretary Oscar Fernandes said the recent elections to the Legislative Council has demonstrated workers’ loyalty to the party and the same should repeat in the forthcoming panchayat polls.Congress leader V.R. Sudarshan on Saturday said the party has decided not to field persons with criminal record in ZP-TP polls.Mr. Sudarshan, who is the party observer for Dakshina Kannada district, told presspersons here that the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee has communicated guidelines to district committees on selection of candidates.The party would not consider those who have not submitted applications expressing their desire to contest the polls, he added. Those who have worked hard for the party and those who have chances of winning would be selected.Mr. Sudarshan said the party had the maximum number of seats in Dakshina Kannada in the year 2000 and a repeat is expected this time too. Later, he held a meeting with district Congress leaders with regard to selection of candidates.‘Though BJP had been in power for two terms, it failed to deliver the goods’