http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/Congress-turns-to-%E2%80%98milk-politics%E2%80%99-as-it-gears-up-for-ZP-TP-polls/article13981892.ece

The Congress, which fears a negative impact following wide-spread farmers’ suicides and the agrarian crisis, seems to have turned to “milk politics” as it braces itself for next month’s elections to rural local bodies.Rural voters, who have dairy faming as one of the major sources of livelihood, will have a key role in deciding the outcome of 30 zilla and 176 taluk panchayats in February. This is seen as a key factor in the government’s announcement of the much-awaited milk price hike to bail out district milk unions and clear pending arrears of milk producers, according to observers. There are more than 70 lakh farmers in the State and a majority of them are connected directly or indirectly to dairy farming, according to estimates. One of the key issues facing farmers has been a major glut in production. The State produces more than 70 lakh litres against the demand for 35 lakh litres a day.This had led to the KMF and 13 milk unions facing severe financial constraints in the last few months.Though the government had initially proposed to get a loan from NABARD to bail out milk unions and develop infrastructure, it found that hiking the milk price was the only viable option to set right the balance sheet of the KMF and unions.However, KMF officials said the milk price is the lowest when compared to other States. But, some officials pointed out that the government wanted to clear all pending arrears of milk producers before electionsSources in the government said paying an incentive of Rs. 4 a litre of milk was one of the major reasons for surplus milk production. With poor infrastructure in districts, now milk unions have been transporting milk to neighbouring Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh for manufacture of powder. Unlike the 2011 ZP and TP polls, the Congress is in power this time. In 2011, the BJP, led by B.S. Yeddyurappa, went to polls and bagged a majority of ZPs and TPs. The Congress and JD(S) won just four ZPs. But, a victory in the 2016 elections would further strengthen Chief Minister Siddaramaiah’s position in the party.Polls likely in mid-Feb.Mysuru Special Correspondent reports:The elections to ZP, TP are likely to be held in the second week of February, said State Election Commissioner P.N. Sreenivasachary, who met deputy commissioners and Superintendents of Police of eight districts of Mysuru division in Mysuru on Monday, urging them to make all necessary preparations for the elections.Elections likely in two phases in February