http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/Congress-to-restrict-plastic-usage-in-GHMC/article14018333.ece

The Congress has said that it would ban usage of plastic with hazardous micron thickness, and promised piped cooking gas to every household in its manifesto for the GHMC polls which was released on Sunday.The four-page brochure titled ‘Apna shahar – sabka shahar… hum sabka shahar Hyderabad’, released by Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy and other leaders, said the Congress would promote eco-friendly materials to replace plastic bags. It would strictly implement court orders on display of flexis and posters if voted to power.The party also promised to make Hyderabad a beggar-free city by rehabilitating the beggars. The Congress would take steps to tackle the menace of stray animals in the city and set up animal clinics for pet animals. Mini zoos would be established in each municipal circle to promote environment and recreation.The autorickshaws and taxis would be permitted to charge fares as per metre reading. The polluting industries would be shifted from the GHMC limits to designated industrial zones.Mr. Reddy dismissed the claim of TRS that it would provide free Wi-Fi to the public in all of Hyderabad, and recalled that the party had deceived people in the past stating it had put in place the service at Tank Bund. The traffic congestion in the city had worsened after the TRS assumed power. In this background, the Congress would take steps to take Metro Rail to every nook and corner of the city.He listed out the achievements in the city during the Congress rule, notably Rajiv Gandhi International Airport, Outer Ring Road, P.V. Narasimha Rao expressway, Krishna and Godavari drinking water schemes, Metro Rail, information technology exports, flyovers, and transition of MCH into GHMC.Mr. Reddy said the tone of TRS that GHMC would benefit if its governing body and the State government were led by the same party was unconstitutional because the municipal corporation was an autonomous institution. There was no need for the GHMC to depend on the government if its budget was fully utilised. The budget of Municipal Corporation of Hyderabad was Rs. 600 crore in 2004-05 but it went up to Rs. 5,000 crore as the GHMC during the Congress rule.The brand image of Hyderabad took a beating with TRS slogan “Andhra bhago”, he said.