http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/music/Concerts-in-memory-of-Dikshitar-and-Eemani-Sankara-Sastry/article14012052.ece

HYDERABAD: Vocalist Radha Sarangapani, a specialist in Dikshitar’s compositions, and ‘Sanatana Sampradaya Sangeetha Bharati’ arranged a concert to pay tribute to the vaggeyakara. The event was held at Swathi Hall, DD Colony last week.The first concert was that of Radha Sarangapani in the company of Komanduri Rajan on violin and Srinivasa Gopalan on mridangam. She appeared to have a large chunk of Dikshitar compositions and the very opening number Vallabha Nayakasya in Begada, Roopka talam revealed her command over Sanskrit. She presented this number with brief ragalapana and crispy swaram. The next number, the popular Annapoorne Visalakshi in Sama, was rendered impressively.This was followed by Thyagaraja Yoga Vaibhavam a rare number in Anandabhairavi. The raga presentation and swarakalpana were well-presented adapting ‘gopuchayati’ technique. Poorvikalyani ragalapana was in detail with well-packed sangathis for the kriti Meenakshi me mudham dehi. Kriti rendition was pleasant followed by impressive swarakalpana.After presenting Neelakantham in Kedaragowla, a fast number, Radha came out with the main number of the concert Kamalamba, Navavarna kirtana in Thodi. Ragalapana and swarakalpana were neat. Rajan’s violin support was well handled, especially when he dealt with ragas Poorvikalyani and Thodi. Tani avartanam by Srinivas was innovative Santhana GopalaAnandamrutavarshini.Veena recitalAs a tribute to legendary Vainika Emani Sankara Sastry, veena artiste Mythili Kidambi gave a concert accompanied by P. Srinivas Gopalan on mridangam. She began with Saveri varanam Sarasuda and played it in two kalas. She then went for traditional prayer to Lord Vinayaka through Hamsadhwani number Gajavadana Beduve with brief ragam and swarakalpana. She then played Valaji extensively for Sree Gayatri of Ogirala Raghava Sarma. Then she presented Vara Narada in Vijayasree, a fast number, followed by Sri Saraswarthi in Hindolam of Mysore Vasudevachar. The raga was delineated in detail but swarakalpana was brief. The kirtana presentation was with vocal touch. This was followed by Mariveregati in Anandabhairavi of Syama Sastry.Natajana Palini in Nalinakanti was the main attraction of the day. Its play on veenawas interesting all through. The tanam was brief and effective. The swaram was played displaying good command on the instrument. Srinivasan on the mridangam elevated the concert. Jhanaki Jeevan KiFinally she concluded with Balamurali’s tillana in Brindavana Saranga.