http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/Confusion-marks-first-day-of-nursery-admission/article13976923.ece

Confusion marked the first day of nursery admissions in the Capital on Friday as many parents queued up to buy forms for their wards even in schools that were accepting online admission.While prominent schools like Modern Junior, Springdales, Bal Bharti, St. Thomas and others accepted online admissions, schools like G.D. Goenka and Queens Mary gave the option of downloading the forms and then sending through courier.Parents, however, queued up outside all these schools not willing to take any chances of missing out on a seat for their wards. A parent who had come for his son's admission at Modern School said: “I went to at least five schools in the morning and found out that all the schools were taking online admissions. Actually, it’s my fault as well, I should have just checked on the school's website before coming, coming to the school was a waste of time.”Most of the schools have made their admission procedure clear on either their school website or the website of the Directorate of Education.Some parents also complained of issues while submitting online forms as many schools taking online admissions were not open for any kind of queries on Friday, being the New Year's day holiday.Asmita Jain (name changed) seeking admission for her daughter said: “I am trying for my daughter's admission in Bal Bharti School, Pitampura and Gangaram Marg, the application form had a section for mentioning if the child has a special need which also included vision impairment. My daughter has a partial vision impairment and I wanted to ask the school if I need to mention it in the form or not or does it qualify in the category but there was no one I could contact. They were not picking up the phone all day.”She added that she faced problem with St. Thomas School where no one was available to answer her queries. “Looks like I will have to go to schools personally to resolve my query, which just defeats the purpose of an online procedure,” she added.Certain technical hiccups were witnessed in EWS online nursery admission as well, as the page for the admissions was down barely few hours after the process began. Also, the website of Queen's Mary School in Model Town said “hacked” later in the day.The government's move to make the EWS admission process online for schools recognised under Delhi School Education Act and Rules (DSEAR), 1973, and continue with the offline process for schools recognised under the Right to Education (RTE) Act 2009, saw parents hassled about which school is under which category.