http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/Cong-BJP-demand-rollback-of-VAT-hike-on-petrol-diesel/article14011819.ece

: They may not agree on much, but both the BJP and the Congress on Wednesday demanded that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government roll back its recent hike of value added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel.The government had hiked VAT from midnight on Monday, increasing petrol and diesel prices by 96 paise per litre and 53 paise per litre respectively. The Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee demanded that the government roll back the hike, calling it “unwarranted”.“The government had set an unrealistic target of a 31 per cent hike in VAT collection, which they are falling short of. After realising that they would not be able to meet the target, the government hiked the VAT to increase its revenue,” said DPCC spokesperson Sharmistha Mukherjee.She added that the Delhiites were being forced to pay an “inefficiency tax” as the government had failed to live up to its election promises. Ms. Mukherjee said the combination of an “insensitive” Central government, which had not passed on the benefits of the global fall in crude prices, and an “inefficient” State government that had put the burden on citizens.Meanwhile, the BJP also slammed Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal for “arbitrarily” spiking tax rates and demanded that the government roll it back.The Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly, Vijender Gupta alleged that the government was passing its own failure on the revenue front to the citizens with an additional burden of Rs. 7,000 crore.“There is no justification for a second increase in VAT within a short period of just six months. It clearly underlines the falling revenue collection and failure of the Delhi Government to control it. There are about 70 days left in the current financial year, but the much publicised VAT model of the government has clearly shown signs of failure,” said Mr Gupta.The BJP MLA from Rohini added that even with this increase there appears to be little possibility of the government achieving its target of Rs. 24,000 crore of VAT collection.“The government has so far collected Rs. 14,500 crore. Out of this Rs. 13,000 crore share is of VAT on account of increase in tax,” he said.