http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/Congress-BJP-contest-Tewari%E2%80%99s-2012-troop-movement-claim/article13992562.ece

Even as Congress leader Manish Tewari courted controversy by claiming that a newspaper report that suspicious troop movement in 2012 had spooked the ruling UPA establishment was “true”, both the Congress and the BJP stepped in on Sunday to contest his claim.“In so far as that particular story you are referring to, that time I used to serve on the Standing Committee on Defence, and it is unfortunate but the story was true. Story was correct,” Mr. Tewari had said in answer to a question at an event on Saturday.The story in question was a report in Indian Express in April 2012 on the movement of two key Army units towards the national capital without notifying the UPA government.“Insofar as that particular story you are referring to, that time I used to serve in the Standing Committee on Defence and it is unfortunate but the story was true. Story was correct. ”— Manish Tewari, Congress leaderGen.(retd.) V.K. Singh, now a minister in the Narendra Modi government, was then Chief of the Army Staff. The Minister rubbished the charge, saying: “He [Mr. Tewari] has no work these days. He should be asked to read my book which reveals everything [on the issue].”Mr. Tewari’s own party was unsparing in its criticism, with spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi saying there was no truth in the statement.He cautioned Mr. Tewari against making such statements as he was not the authorised spokesperson on such issues. “I wish to… request and advise on behalf of the Congress that such remarks and observations in respect to which he is neither the authorised spokesperson of the party nor the spokesperson on foreign and defence affairs, nor privy to any of the relevant committee or decision-making body, should have been avoided and should in future be avoided.”While Mr. Tewari said on Saturday that he had got adverse comments against the newspaper expunged from a draft report of the Standing Committee on Defence with the support of Naresh Gujral of the Shiromani Akali Dal, Mr. Gujral told The Hindu: “It is true that I did not want strictures against the newspaper for the story, but nobody told me even in private that the story was correct. I accepted the official version of the government, and nobody told me anything different unofficially or privately.”Who said what“He(Tewari) has no works these days. He should be asked to read my book which reveals everything. ”“There is absolutely no truth in it. My colleague was not a member of Cabinet Committee on Security. ”“The Congress does not take him (Mr. Tewari) seriously. Why should we?. Shahnawz Hussain, BJP spokesperson ”I have nothing more to add or subtract, said Mr. Tewari after the reactions.