http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/Congress-MLAs-come-to-blows-over-Rahul-Gandhi%E2%80%99s-visit/article13996356.ece

The ongoing infighting in the Mumbai Congress escalated on Tuesday with two party MLAs coming to blows during a meeting. While leaders present at the meeting said a ‘discussion’ over the constituency that party vice-president Rahul Gandhi will visit during his visit to Mumbai led to the altercation, party sources said the recent controversy over an article in Mumbai Congress’ mouthpiece ‘Congress darshan’, which had criticised the Nehru-Gandhi family, was the root cause of the fight. After the article was published, one group of the party that opposed Sanjay Nirupam, the Mumbai unit chief of the party, has been demanding his ouster. Even though Mr Nirupam has apologised for the mistake, his opponents from the party are firm on the demand.On Tuesday, in a meeting organised to discuss Mr Gandhi’s visit, Naseem Khan, an MLA from Chandivli raised the issue once again. Aslam Sheikh, party MLA from Malad, who is seen as part of Mr Nirupam’s camp, countered his view, which led to a verbal duel between the two.Soon, members from both sides joined the chaos, during which both the MLAs allegedly came to blows.The matter was settled after the warring duo was calmed by party workers attending the meeting. Speaking to the media after the meeting, Mr Sheikh said that small incidents needn’t be taken seriously.Mr Khan too downplayed the controversy. A Congress leader, who was present at the meeting, said that both the leaders wanted Mr Gandhi to visit their respective constituency.“It was the trigger and what followed was this unfortunate incident,” said the leader. Infighting within the Mumbai Congress has peaked over the last few days. The Hindu had reported on Monday how former MP Gurudas Kamat’s dinner last week turned out to be a show of strength with all big Congress leaders attending it. Mr Kamat later claimed that it was his annual dinner party hosted by him and he never intended it to be anything otherwise.