http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/Congress-may-field-Sanjeeva-Reddy/article14000771.ece

The Congress is likely to field P. Sanjeeva Reddy as its candidate for the by-election to the Narayanakhed Assembly constituency in the district.This was indicated by Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy at Gandhi Bhavan on Thursday. He said that they have recommended his to the party high command and are waiting for its response.Mr. Sanjeeva Reddy is currently Mandal Parishad president at Narayanakhed. Earlier, he was ZPTC member from the same area. The election was necessitated due to sudden demise of Congress senior legislator P. Kishta Reddy on August 25, 2015.The byelection for Narayanakhed constituency of Medak district will be held on February 13 and the counting will be held on February 16.Notification for by-election will be issued on January 20 and the last date for filing of nominations is January 27. The last day for withdrawal is January 30.TRS one-upEven as the other political parties are yet to step into the campaign mode, the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) is ahead of others.Irrigation Minister T. Harish Rao was reportedly entrusted with the responsibility of wining the seat. Mr. Rao is already campaigning and has visited the constituency several times.The election may witness a tough fight between the Congress which held the seat for long time and the TRS. While the Congress is pinning its hopes on sympathy factor on the demise of Mr. Kistha Reddy, the TRS is sticking to development. “I will develop this constituency like that of Siddipet and guarantee that. Give us a chance for development and be part in it,” was what Mr. Harish Rao and others have been appealing to the people in the constituency for the past few months.Some of the roads have already been laid in the constituency and funds sanctioned for development works - like beautification of tanks.With the recent winning of the Warangal Lok Sabha by-election, the confidence of the TRS has doubled. The TRS has zeroed in on M. Bhoopal Reddy, and Mr. Harish Rao is been taking him along wherever he addresses a meeting in the constituency.TDP banks on goodwillThe Telugu Desam party (TDP) is betting on M. Vijayapal Reddy, former legislator, and brother of TRS candidate, as he has goodwill in the public.