http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Confusion-over-SDCC-president%E2%80%99s-post-continues/article13976240.ece

Even after the conclusion of the election for the Legislative Council from the local authorities constituency here, the confusion over a change of guard in Shivamogga District Congress Committee (SDCC), which had caused much embarrassment to the party, has not ended.R. Prasanna Kumar, who has won the recent Legislative Council election, had been the president of Shivamogga District Congress Committee for the last 10 years. The Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee, after fielding Mr. Kumar for the Legislative Council election from Shivamogga local bodies constituency, had announced that T.N. Srinivas, member of Sagar City Municipal Council, who had also participated in many agitations demanding land ownership rights to bagair hukum farmers, would be appointed as in-charge president of Shivamogga District Congress Committee.After the conclusion of polling, Mr. Kumar had said that he would continue to be president of SDCC and that the appointment of an in-charge president was only an adhoc arrangement made during the election. There was no direction from the party leadership to hand over the responsibility to Mr. Srinivas, he said.Enraged by Mr. Kumar’s statement, Mr. Srinivas had said, “No one should take the post of SDCC president for granted. By recognising my contribution towards strengthening the base of the Congress in the region, the post of SDCC president had been offered to me and I will soon take charge.”A section of Congress leaders in Sagar, who are supporters of Mr. Srinivas, had openly expressed their displeasure over the delay in the transfer of charge.After Mr. Kumar won the Legislative Council election, it was expected that he would hand over the charge to Mr. Srinivas. However, Mr. Kumar has said that he would continue as president of SDCC till the inauguration of the committee’s new building scheduled for third week of January. Mr. Kumar expressed his desire to continue as SDCC president till the completion of forthcoming elections to zilla and taluk panchayats.According to sources, to avoid further embarrassment, the KPCC has directed Mr. Srinivas to wait for some time. Mr. Srinivas told presspersons here that he would wait for further instruction from KPCC president regarding the issue.The KPCC was likely to direct Mr. Kumar to hand over the charge to him (Mr. Srinivas) on the day on which new SDCC building would be inaugurated, he said.Appointment of in-charge president for SDCC was only an ad hoc arrangement made for the sake of Council polls.R. Prasanna Kumar,President,Shivamogga District Congress CommitteeCAUSE OF CONFUSIONKPCC had earlier announced that Sagar CMC member Srinivas would be appointed in-charge president of SDCCPrasanna Kumar won the elections to Legislative Council from Shivamogga local authorities constituencyParty leaders in Sagar have expressed displeasure over the delay in appointing Srinivas as SDCC presidentKPCC president is said to have directed Srinivas to wait till the inauguration of SDCC building scheduled for January third week for the confusion to clear