http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Concern-over-investors-not-coming-forward-to-set-up-units-in-Hassan-SEZs/article14011128.ece

The special economic zones (SEZs) set up in Hassan Industrial Area for export-oriented industries have remained vacant with no investors coming forward to set up any unit there. Except for the SEZ meant for textile industries, there are no takers for the land available in SEZs meant for aerospace and automobile, pharmaceutical and food processing sectors. The Department of Industries is planning to showcase the investment opportunities available in Hassan during the Global Investors’ Meet (GIM) to be held from February 5 at Bengaluru.V.S. Hegde, Joint Director of the District Industries Centre, told The Hindu on Wednesday that 280.25 acres of land in Textile SEZ, 63.77 acres in pharmaceutical SEZ and 131.44 acres in food processing SEZ are lying vacant. “The SEZs are meant for export-oriented industries. Those venturing into export business look for proper connectivity. If the railway connectivity is improved and the airport project gets completed, many investors will evince interest on investing in SEZs here,” he said.In the last GIM held in 2012, 12 projects had been proposed in Hassan. Among them, only one had been completed so far, three were in different stages of completion and the remaining eight had been withdrawn by respective investors.“This time, we are showcasing opportunities available for agro-based industries, pharmaceutical industries, aerospace and automobile-related industries at the GIM. Besides, Hassan has greater potential for investment in tourism sector. All the eight taluks in the district have places that attract a large number of tourists, regularly,” he said.The department was working out a plan for industrial growth in Hassan. The plan included investment potential, availability of raw materials and skilled personnel seeking jobs. “We are planning to hold a convention involving the representatives of industries in Hassan regarding investment opportunities and facilities being provided by the government,” he said.Twelve applications seeking land for projects with investments of a few crores of rupees were before the department. “We do not have sufficient land in the Growth Centre, where small industries are allowed to come up. We are waiting for the completion of land acquisition process so that we can allot plots to all those interested in setting up industrial units and generate employment opportunities,” he said.Basically, the SEZs have been made available in KIADB sites for export-oriented industriesOwing to poor response from investors, authorities planning to showcase various facilities available in Hassan during investors’ meet in BengaluruTourism sector stated to have huge investment potential in HassanIt is proposed to conduct a convention of representatives of various industries