http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/Cop-%E2%80%98accidentally%E2%80%99-shoots-himself-during-raid/article13986224.ece

A police raid conducted early on Wednesday morning took an ugly turn after a 32-year-old policeman ‘accidentally’ killed himself with his AK-47 rifle.Trained as a commando, constable Anand Khatri had joined the Delhi Police’s Special Cell less than three months ago. According to police, the rifle went off accidentally when the constable stumbled or was climbing down from the terrace after nabbing the accused. According to senior officers, the constable had kept his rifle ready since it was an active operation which involved threat. Police have ruled out foul play.Even as Khatri breathed his last, his colleagues in the anti-terror unit managed to successfully nab the suspect they had come after.The accused has been identified as Ashok, 30. Police say that a pistol and 10 cartridges were recovered from his possession. Ashok is believed to be an alleged associate of notorious gangsters Manjeet Mahal and Ravinder Bholu, who mainly operate in Najafgarh and neighbouring areas.DCP (Special Cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav said the accused was wanted in eight criminal cases ranging from murder to extortion and was carrying a reward of Rs 20,000.“One of our inspectors had an input that Ashok and his associates were frequenting a house in Sector 21 of Rohini. Specific inputs about Ashok were received late on Tuesday night,” said Mr. Yadav.A team, which included the deceased constable, was hurriedly assembled early on Wednesday to raid the house in Rohini. Located amidst old buildings, the single-storey house was surrounded by the police, while some personnel entered the premises around 5.30 a.m. In his bid to escape, the accused climbed up to the terrace. Arrangements were then made to get a police team, which included Khatri, to climb up. The accused was restrained after a brief scuffle.The mishap involving the constable took place while Ashok was being brought down. It is believed that Khatri was trying to climb down when he accidentally pressed the trigger. Police say that it is also possible that he may have stumbled in the commotion, leading to the accident.Blood stains on the upper portion of the 15-foot high wall, however, indicate that the rifle went off before the policeman could come down. The bullet hit him below the chin. He was declared brought dead at the Sanjay Gandhi Hospital in Mangolpuri.Khatri’s father Balwan Singh, who retired as a Delhi Police sub-inspector less than a year ago, told The Hindu that he too saw the incident as accidental.The accused is an associate of notorious gangsters Manjeet Mahal and Ravinder Bholu, who mainly operate in Najafgarh