http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/Cops-kidnappers-face-off-on-NH-8/article14018596.ece

Commuters on NH-8 were witness to drama on Saturday morning after a case of kidnapping, car-jacking and shooting ended in an armed confrontation between one of the abductors and a policeman.It all began when 24-year-old Prashant Yadav was heading to Gurgaon in his Swift car to meet a friend. Three men asked him for a lift till Sahara Mall on the way. An unsuspecting Yadav obliged and the trio hopped in, while their accomplices followed in another car.After Yadav’s car crossed Sahara Mall, he asked the men why they had not got off. “The suspects responded by pointing a gun at him. He was pulled to the backseat by one of the suspects while another took to the wheels,” Prem Nath, DCP (South), told The Hindu .The suspects drove towards Delhi on NH-8 until they had to stop at the Delhi-Gurgaon border because of traffic. Seeing a police picket a few metres ahead, Yadav sensed an opportunity and escaped from the car.“One of the abductors pulled out a pistol and fired at Yadav, injuring him in his leg,” said the DCP.Yadav managed to get to the picket to seek help. Constable Dharmendra, who was deployed there, immediately rushed towards the suspects with his INSAS rifle, while some others attended to the injured Yadav.The kidnappers, meanwhile, fled. While two managed to escape, the third, later identified as 20-year-old Pawan, hid in a truck nearby. Constable Dharmendra did not miss Pawan’s attempt at escaping and alerted his colleagues. The truck was surrounded by police and Pawan was asked to surrender.The suspect, however, chose to take on the police. He pulled out a pistol and threatened to shoot Dharmendra, said the DCP.The constable retaliated with the constable cocking his rifle and threatening to shoot the suspect. Soon after, Pawan put down his weapon and surrendered.He was then taken to the Vasant Kunj (South) police station and interrogated, while Prashant Yadav was rushed to a hospital. The car carrying the accomplices of the suspects used the commotion to get away. Though police are yet to identify the vehicle, they said that the car was probably stolen a few days ago.The suspects who escaped have been identified as Pravin and Punit, residents of Jhajjar in Haryana.The suspects drove until traffic forced them to stop at the Delhi-Gurgaon border