http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/Cops-show-no-mercy-towards-violators/article13981247.ece

While Day One of the odd-even scheme saw traffic police treat violators with kid gloves, they showed no mercy on Monday.A total of 1,997 violators were issued challans by the enforcement agencies on Monday. The traffic police went on to challan 1,040 motorists on Monday, more than the combined number of challans issued on Days One and Two. Of the total, 378 challans were issued in South Delhi, while the lowest number of violators — 56 — were reported from the northern part of the city. These besides the 766 challans issued by the Revenue Department of the Delhi government, which had deputed 70 teams, and the 191 challans issued by the Transport Department’s enforcement wing.A senior traffic police officer said many motorists in posh areas of South Delhi chose to ignore the rule and were willing to cough up the fine amount.Speaking to The Hindu , Special Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Muktesh Chander attributed the increase in challans to the end of the new year holidaying.“People have returned to the city after a holiday and most of them had to attend their office. So, there was increased vehicular movement and lesser compliance,” said Mr. Chander.He said most motorists knew about the rule, but were in a hurry to reach office and found it more convenient to pay the fine than travel by public transport. The prosecuted offenders included a motorist claiming to be an MP’s son. Having a ‘VIP’ sticker on his car, he tried to get away with his odd-number vehicle. However, he was stopped and challaned, he added.Most violators were reluctant to cough up the fine of Rs. 2,000 and tried everything they could to get away. While some cajoled the policemen, others said they were in a rush due to an emergency, many even talked to their ‘connections’ in order to get out of the sticky situation. None of these tricks, however, helped.“We showed no mercy to violators and did not listen to any excuses. Anyone violating the rule has to pay the fine,” said Seemapuri Sub-Divisional Magistrate Subhash Chand, who was overseeing the process at the Delhi-U.P. border.