http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/Cops-begin-crackdown-on-moneylenders/article13981370.ece

n a shocking revelation, moneylenders operating in the old city are now usurping properties of the poor, which they pledge as collateral, and later disposing it of making huge money.The city police recently stumbled upon this modus operandi during a routine investigation and launched a special drive on Monday. They managed to arrest around 20 moneylenders. The moneylenders offer loans between Rs. 2 lakh and Rs. 5 lakh and take property worth Rs. 8 to Rs. 15 lakh as collateral or become GPA holders.When the borrower delays payment, they approach the courts or police without informing the background of the case and take possession of the properties, or sell it to some other persons. “It is an organised syndicate. They are always in search of people in need and lure them with the help of brokers,” DCP (south) V. Satyanarayana said, adding that people seldom approach the police as they are afraid of physical harm.During the special drive conducted on Monday, they caught 56 moneylenders who were operating illegally. Police found that at least 40 moneylenders were continuing with their activities. The police also nabbed a woman who was helping the moneylenders and also offering loans at high interest.“Fearing cases and public outcry, the moneylenders are now employing women to recover the money and take possession of properties. Around a dozen women gangs, who are on the payroll of moneylenders, have been identified,” Mr. Satyanarayana explained.In the last one year, the police have registered around 270 criminal cases against moneylenders and have remanded them. The police will send proposals for invoking IPC sections against the those who were arrested on similar charges earlier also.“Investigations are going on and we request victims to come forward and lodge complaints against moneylenders or pahelwans who have grabbed their properties. There is nothing to fear and police will provide security,” the official assured. Soon after the drive was launched, around 15 moneylenders, who are under the scanner, fled the city. The police are making efforts to nab them.