http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/Corporation-staff-camp-outside-CM%E2%80%99s-office/article13986213.ece

Workers of municipal corporations in the national Capital, who have not been given salaries for three months, protested outside Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence on Wednesday.The protesters, who had camped near the barricades outside Mr. Kejriwal’s house in Civil Lines, shouted slogans against the government and asked for their salaries to be given. Though it is the BJP-run municipalities that have been unable to pay the staff, the unions — especially those connected to the Congress — lashed out at the Aam Aadmi Party government for not giving funds to the civic bodies.The protest saw sanitation workers, health department staff and some teachers raising their voice against the delayed salaries. The financially-struggling corporations have been late in issuing salaries for a year now.“When we ask our corporation, they tell us to ask the government that hasn’t given funds. And when we ask the government, they tell us to go to the corporations. Workers are suffering because of politics,” said Sanjay Gehlot, president of the Swatantra Majdoor Vikas Sanyukt Morcha.Congress leader and former Delhi MLA Jai Kishan told the workers that the problem of late salaries had become acute after the AAP came to power in February 2015.“This had never happened when the Congress was in power in Delhi and at the Centre. The Chief Minister is trying to disrupt the corporations’ work. The BJP leaders also have no concern,” Mr. Kishan said.The North and East Delhi corporations have been the worst hit, while the South Delhi civic body is likely to follow suit in the coming financial year when the implementation of the Seventh Pay Commission is expected to increase expenditure. In fact, staff unions are planning to go on strike on January 27 if their dues are not cleared soon.Wednesday also saw doctors from municipal hospitals holding a candlelight protest. The doctors have not been paid since October 2015.“This is despite assurances from the authorities last year that salaries would be dispersed by December 31, 2015. Most of us are facing personal financial troubles as almost all of us are from outside Delhi and have rent and bank loans to pay,” said a senior physician from Bara Hindu Rao Hospital, which is owned by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation.The Swaraj Abhiyan, led by Yogendra Yadav and Prashant Bhushan, also came out in support of the municipal workers.Expressing his support, Timarpur MLA Pankaj Pushkar said: “We fully support the agitation of the workers and urge those in the corporations as well as the Delhi government to pay salaries at the earliest.”Swaraj Abhiyan leaders, however, requested the workers not to resort to a strike as it would take a toll on the city.Wednesday also saw doctors from municipal hospitals holding a candlelight protest