http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/letters/Corroding-steel-frame/article14024751.ece

The main reason for bribery and corruption in India is that people in general are happy to do this and give so long as the demand is reasonable and consistent with the favour done (“ >The stained steel frame”, Jan.28). It is only when the demand becomes exorbitant or when people are harassed that it comes to light. I am sure that the former CBI Director knows this, that such complaints are far and few between, and are only indicative of what is happening in the field. Sometimes someone who is disgruntled and who does not get his share becomes an informant and enables the CBI to lay a trap. Otherwise everything keeps going smoothly and all are happy. The writer concludes his article by mentioning “public vigilance”. But what is required is public morality and honesty in dealings with the government.V. Krishnamachari,MumbaiThere are multiple laws and rules but all of them have failed to achieve their desired end. Corruption is multidimensional and cannot be contained with mere legislation. Corruption stems from greed and discontent which is exacerbated because of societal acceptance of corruption and even appreciation of it. Discontent arises from the fact that bright and talented civil servants are not allowed to work freely and then face political pressure to make them fall in line. At the same time, there is no recognition of their work, while their counterparts in the corporate sector have it good, especially gaining wealth and fame by doing equal if not more work. A strong accountability regime with a transparent working structure, and a more open and satisfying working environment are the long-lasting solutions.Divyank Singh,BhopalFormer CVC N. Vittal once explained how the process of corrupting institutions has degenerated into the institutionalisation of corruption, with public response keeping step with it in three stages. The criticism of corruption in the early years of democratic India was followed by tolerance of it in the years that followed and then culminated in honouring of the corrupt with high positions and even awards. What is depressing is that those in the higher echelons of the system, instead of setting an example to those below them, are now forcing them to be a part of their greed.T.S. Narayanan,Bhimavaram, Andhra PradeshSevere forms of punishment alone cannot be a deterrent as seen even in China where officials who are declared to be corrupt are simply executed. In India, the menace of corruption is reaching a peak and corrective measures should begin from the top. Political leaders should resolutely decide to do away with corruption and engage themselves in the task of cleansing the system. As long as the one who is supposed to question and act remains corrupt, nothing tangible will happen. There should also be a strong and sustained social movement to curb all-pervading corruption.A.G. Rajmohan,Anantapur, Andhra Pradesh