http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/Court-summons-Mika-Singh/article14026577.ece

A Delhi court has issued fresh summons to singer Mika Singh on a civil defamation suit filed by a doctor who the singer had allegedly slapped at a music concert last April.The court had last time summoned the singer on December 19 for January 11. However, the police officer who went to serve it at his residence at Vikas Puri in West Delhi was told by his sister that he was not available.“Process issued to the defendant [Mika ] received back un-served with the report that sister of the defendant told the process server that defendant is not available at home. In view of report, issue fresh summons of the suit to the defendant... Defendant be also served by way of affixation, in case of non availability/ refusal/premises found locked,” Additional Sessions Judge D.K. Jangala said while issuing a fresh summons to the singer for January 30.Plaintiff Dr. Srikanth, a native of Telengana, is an ophthalmologist at Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital here. He has sought Rs.50 lakh as damages, alleging that Mika had slapped him at a live concert organised by the Delhi Ophthalmological Society.The doctor has alleged that two of the singer’s bouncers present at the concert dragged him onto the stage on his instructions and then Mika slapped him there on his left ear in full view of the audience.Earlier, when he was dancing, Mika without any provocation started pointing fingers at him from the stage and asked him to move aside allegedly in a rude manner and using abusive language, the suit further said. When he did not pay heed to his ‘dictatorship and un-parliamentary and abusive language,’ Mika got angry and directed his bouncers to drag him onto the stage.“On instructions by the defendant, two of his bouncers rushed to him, caught him by the collar and dragged him onto the stage. He kept on pleading to leave and not treat him with such brutality, but to no avail,” the suit further alleged.Mika slapped the doctor on the left ear causing bleeding injuries in his ear drum, knowing fully well that the entire crowd was witnessing the incident. “Shocked and surprised by the illegal and unlawful act of the defendant, the plaintiff felt very hurt, anguished, humiliated and embarrassed as the whole crowd gathered at the venue, most of them were his colleagues and friends and knew him very well, being a doctor. They were looking at the plaintiff which was very shameful and disgraceful for the plaintiff, as if the plaintiff had indeed done something wrong, objectionable and offensive,” the suit stated.The plaintiff, an ophthalmologist, has sought Rs.50 lakh as damages, alleging Singh had slapped him at a live concert