http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/kozhikode/Court-accepts-closure-report-in-graft-case/article14003182.ece

The Kozhikode Vigilance Inquiry Commissioner and Special Judge has dismissed a case against former Kozhikode Corporation Mayor M. Bhaskaran, former Deputy Mayor P.T. Abdul Latheef and former Secretary S. Vijayakumar in connection with the sanctioning of space to the Punjab National Bank to operate an ATM in front of the Corporation office.Special judge V. Prakash was acting on the basis of a report submitted by the Vigilance and Anti Corruption Bureau (VACB) under Section 173 (report of police officer on completion of investigation) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). The VACB had stated that investigators had found no convincing evidence to establish the involvement of the respondents and that their decision had caused revenue loss to the Corporation.ATM rentThe VACB had carried out a preliminary investigation based on a complaint filed by K.P. Vijayakumar, general convener of Azhimathi Virudha Janakeeya Munnani, against Mr. Bhaskaran and others stating that the decision of the Corporation to allow the Punjab National Bank to operate an ATM for an annual rent of Rs. 6000 had caused a loss of Rs. 66,000. The same bank had in fact opened another counter at the Police Club for an annual rent of Rs. 72,000, the complainant said.Subsequently the VACB filed a First Information Report and carried out an investigation. Vigilance sleuths said that no material evidence had been found and that no further action could be taken against the respondents either under any sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act or Indian Penal Code (IPC). The city Corporation council had taken a unanimous decision on June 9, 2010 to given sanction to the ATM counter on ground rent.17 casesThe VACB had already registered 17 cases in connection with the alleged irregularities in the Kozhikode Corporation during the rule of the CPI (M)- led Left Democratic Front in 2005-2010.Of them, investigations in six cases had been completed and the remaining 11 cases were in the final stages.