http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/Countdown-begins-to-The-Hindu-Young-World-Quiz/article14025936.ece

The 16th anniversary of  The Hindu Young World Quiz , one of the longest running and largest live school quizzes, will be organised in Hyderabad on Saturday (January 30). The quiz will be hosted by  The Hindu’s resident quizmaster V.V. Ramanan. The contest will have two categories: Juniors (Classes IV to VI) at 10 a.m., and Seniors (Classes VII to IX) at 2 p.m.Spot registrationThe competition in Hyderabad will be conducted at Sundarayya Vignana Kendra, Bagh Lingampally.Spot registrations will be held for students in the junior category from 9 a.m. onwards. The quiz will begin at 10 a.m.Similarly, the spot registrations for students in the senior category will begin at 1 p.m., and the quiz will begin at 2 p.m. It would be two-tiered: common written preliminaries and an on-stage final for the top 6 teams (based on the marks scored in the prelims).The winner at the centre will receive a trophy, a bicycle and a certificate.The first and the second runners-up would receive a trophy and a certificate. The other finalists and audience are eligible for other prizes and goodies. All the participants will receive a goodie bag and certificates. For those who want to register online, the last date has been extended by a day and they can register on Saturday also. The 16th edition of the quiz is being presented (sponsored) by the Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT) and powered by State Bank of India (SBI). Firefox is the national gift partner and Kokuyo Camlin is the goodie partner. The food sponsor is Country Oven, Hyderabad. The Hindu stall will be open at the venue for purchase of all our publications.ContactFor further details, interested candidates can contact Hyderabad edition head C.G. Vijaya Rama Raju by dialling 9848834944 or log on to www.thehindu.com/ywquiz2015 .Those who are not able to register online can register on the spot at the venue an hour before the contest.