http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Court-rejects-Jayarajan%E2%80%99s-anticipatory-bail-plea/article14010028.ece

The District and Sessions Court at Thalassery on Tuesday rejected the anticipatory bail application filed by Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] district secretary P. Jayarajan raising apprehensions about his arrest and harassment by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probing the murder of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) functionary E. Manoj at Kathirur in September 2014.Principal sessions judge V.G. Anilkumar rejected the plea saying that there was no ground for granting the application as Mr. Jayarajan was not an accused in the case. On July 24 last year, the court had rejected his earlier anticipatory bail application. CBI counsel argued that anticipatory bail could not be granted in cases registered under Section 43D of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.The court dismissed Mr. Jayarajan's application filed on January 11 following a notice served by the CBI asking him to appear before it for questioning in the murder case at Thalassery Government Rest House on January 12.Responding to the rejection of his plea, Mr. Jayarajan told the media that he had no worry in the wake of the court's order as he was not an accused in the case. Therefore, he was not planning to appeal against the court's rejection of his anticipatory bail plea.Following the rejection of his application, the CBI is likely to serve him a fresh notice asking for his appearance before the investigation team.The CBI had earlier questioned him in Thiruvananthapuram on June 2 as part of the probe into the murder. Mr. Jayarajan in his anticipatory bail application had said that the CBI was allegedly being used to implement the Sangh Parivar's ‘agenda.'Manoj had been hacked to death at Ukkasmotta, near Kathirur, on September 1, 2014. He was one of the accused in the attempted murder of Mr. Jayarajan at the latter's residence, near Kathirur, on August 25, 1999.