http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/kozhikode/CPIM-district-unit-gears-up-for-Nava-Kerala-Yatra/article14006734.ece

The CPI(M) district unit has made all arrangements to receive the ongoing Nava Kerala Yatra led by CPI(M) Polit Bureau member Pinarayi Vijayan, which will enter the district on Wednesday.The yatra will tour the district for three days.It will be accorded receptions at 12 out of the 13 centres. Kozhikode north and Kozhikode south assembly segments will give a combined reception, CPI(M) district secretary P. Mohanan, told a news conference here on Monday.About two lakh people will take part in these receptions. The yatra focuses on upholding secularism, corruption-free society and development of the State.The yatra will be received by CPI(M) district leaders at Adivaram bordering Kozhikode-Wayanad districts at 9 a.m. on Wednesday. CPI(M) leaders M.V. Govindan, K.J. Thomas, P.K. Sainaba, M.B. Rajesh, P.K. Biju, A. Sambath and K.T. Jaleel, MLA, are also accompanying Mr. Vijayan in the State-wide yatra that began from Kasaragod last week.Red volunteers of the party will give a guard of honour at the reception centres. About 15,000 to 20,000 people will take part at each reception centre. The yatra will conclude in the district with a rally on Kozhikode beach at 5 p.m. on January 22.The first reception will be at Mukkom in Thiruvambady Assembly segment, followed by at Thamarassery, Ulliyeri and Perambra.On the second day, the yatra will commence from Nadapuram, and with receptions at Ayyancherry, Vadakkara and Koyilandy. Receptions have been planned at Kakkodi Bazaar, Mavoor, Feroke and Kozhikode beach on the third day.Former leaders, sympathisers, kith and kin of martyrs, family members of party workers, old-timers, social and cultural leaders would take part in these receptions. A motorcycle procession will also be taken out from one centre to another.Mr. Mohanan said that local committees constituted booth-level committees for the success of the yatra. Family get-togethers were also conducted in connection with the programme.Assembly-wise marches have already been taken out by leaders announcing the significance of the yatra. These had been highly successful.CPI (M) State committee member A. Pradeepkumar and district committee members T.P. Dasan and K. Chandran were also present at the news conference.