http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/CPIM-Sangh-Parivar-in-pact-alleges-Sudheeran/article13987880.ece

Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president V.M. Sudheeran has said that the Sangh Parivar’s silence on its earlier demand for a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the murder of Bharatiya Jana Yuva Morcha leader K.T. Jayakrishnan has raised suspicion about a backstage pact between the Sangh Parivar and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)].“The BJP which strongly demanded a CBI probe into the murder case is now observing silence on the issue, while the CPI(M) is swift to welcome the Sangh Parivar’s offer of peace talks to end political violence,” Mr. Sudheeran said at a press conference here on Thursday to brief about the Jana Raksha Yatra he is leading.He said that though RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat had offered the proposal for talks with the CPI(M), the CPI(M) was quick to welcome the offer. “If both sides are interested in lasting peace in the district, they should surrender their weapons before the police,” Mr. Sudheeran said. He said that the CPI(M) and the Sangh Parivar should condemn the murders they had carried out in the past. He said that both the outfits continued to amass weapons. Instead of ideologically confronting the Sangh Parivar, the CPI(M) was imitating the latter’s style, he said citing the CPI(M) bid to promote yoga. The proposed peace talks between the CPI(M) and Sangh Parivar was a miniature version of Stalin-Hitler non-aggression pact of 1939, he added.Mr. Sudheeran said that the proposed amendments in the labour rules by the Central government were to water down rights of workers.Microcredit schemeHe also said that SNDP Yogam general secretary Vellappally Natesan could not shirk his responsibility in connection with the irregularities in microcredit scheme.He also called upon the Chief Electoral Officer to seriously examine the reported phenomenal increase in the number of voters in the State. To a question on the delay in taking over Pariyaram Medical College, he said that the United Democratic Front government wanted to take over the institution by clearing all anomalies involved in spending and recruitment.