http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/CPIM-in-a-tight-spot/article14013892.ece

The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) naming Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] district secretary P. Jayarajan as an accused in the Manoj murder case has put the party leadership in a tight spot as his indictment and possible arrest are expected to cause a huge political embarrassment for the party preparing for the Assembly election.The news of the arraignment of Mr. Jayarajan in the case came even as the CPI(M) district committee was meeting here on Thursday in the presence of party State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, apparently to discuss the political and legal fallout of the trial court’s rejection of Mr. Jayarajan’s anticipatory bail plea and his subsequent hospitalisation.Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) functionary E. Manoj was hacked to death at Kathirur on September 1, 2014.The assailants had hurled bombs at the car he was driving and killed him when he came out of it.The CBI charge sheet identified political vengeance as the prime motive for the crime.Manoj was an accused in the case of attack on Mr. Jayarajan in 1999.UAPA provisionsThe CPI(M) will continue to attribute the indictment of Mr. Jayarajan to an RSS plot. But the party will find itself in a tight spot if the CBI moves to arrest him in the case registered under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), say political observers.Under the UAPA, an accused can be denied bail up to 180 days. Legal experts say that Mr. Jayarajan can approach the trial court or the High Court with a fresh anticipatory bail plea.Squandered chanceThey also add that the CPI(M) has squandered an opportunity to highlight how the UAPA, meant for handling terror-related cases, is being used to implicate political rivals.When Vikraman, the prime accused in the case, had earlier approached the High Court questioning the invocation of the UAPA, the court had rejected his plea. That order was not challenged in the Supreme Court.Mr. Jayarajan had been arrested on conspiracy charges in 2012 in a case relating to the murder of Muslim Students Federation activist Abdul Shukkoor.Indictment and arrest of Jayarajan will cause huge embarrassment for the party