http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Vijayawada/CPIM-picks-holes-in-CRDA-plan/article14006882.ece

Communist Party of India (Marxist) CRDA region convener Ch. Babu Rao on Monday said that as many as 2,500 layouts were rejected in the capital region by the AP Capital Region Development Authority (CRDA) in the last six months even though the people paid the conversion tax from agricultural to residential purpose.“At wits’ end”Speaking to media persons here, he said the people of Krishna and Guntur districts -- parts of which came under the CRDA -- were in a piquant position as they cannot build houses on their land.“The State government is keen on looking after the interests of Singapore entrepreneurs rather than people of Krishna and Guntur districts.”While people of Rayalaseema and North Andhra felt that they were neglected, the fact of the matter was people of Krishna and Guntur were largely affected as the master plan conceived by CRDA favoured businessmen and not the farmers.“The layout provision is only for the urban packets and no layout provision was given in agricultural protection zones. The plan had earmarked three zones as agriculture protective zones. The Zone-3 (481.65 sq.kms) is meant for future demands of the capital city. It is meant for the expansion activities,” he pointed out.In Zone -1 (3820.75 sq km) the CRDA successfully curbed urbanisation and earmarked provisions for dairies, fisheries, nurseries, poultries, kiln, limestone, domestic industries without noise, power sub-stations, quarries, petrol bunks, and garages.The CPI(M) leader said in Zone 2 (1137.86 sq. km) it had earmarked for parks, playfields such as recreation, fairs, amusement parks and temporary tents for social activities. Mr. Rao found fault with the government for pursuing a dual policy. “On one hand it is destroying the green belt and on the other it is creating agricultural protection zones which are of no use to farmers. In West, incentives were given if the agricultural land is acquired by the State for larger interest of the society”.