http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/Crafting-a-short/article13984336.ece

One of the most significant developments in cinema in the recent years has been its democratisation. Digital filmmaking, easier access to cheaper technology has ensured that anyone with a camera can now be a filmmaker, potentially. Yet not quite. More doesn’t necessarily mean merrier. Qualitatively the films remain where they were, same if not better than when they were being made on celluloid.Is technology all? What about story-telling? How to turn an idea into a script? How to shape it into a film? The much celebrated Marathi filmmaker Umesh Kulkarni, with feature films such as Valu , Vihir , Deool and Highway — A Selfie Aar Paar behind him, will address this and answer the fundamental questions — why (make a film), what (to say) and how (to say it).He will take the participants through the basics of the medium in Shoot A Short, a four-day workshop on short filmmaking that he will be conducting in Mumbai from January 7 at Sathaye College auditorium in Vile Parle. It is being organised in association with jamuura.com, an online platform for young and aspiring independent filmmakers.Tryst with cinemaThe focus on shorts is understandable. A Film and Television Institute (FTII) graduate, Mr Kulkarni has been a strong advocate of short filmmaking and began his tryst with cinema with some much celebrated shorts like Girni (his diploma film), Three of Us , Vilay and Gaarud . Kulkarni also curates the short films package at the Dharamshala International Film Festival.Liberating formatThe versatility and independence that the format offers is particularly liberating for budding filmmakers in terms of experimenting with story-telling than being bogged down by the commercial constraints of feature films.Kulkarni, alongwith Samar Nakhate, the ex-dean of FTII, has been running such filmmaking workshops in Pune for the last four years, where they’ve trained over 300 young filmmakers.The workshop will be held from January 7 to 10 from 9.30 am to 5 pm at Sathaye College. For registration details contact: 9167677801, 9623448503, 9167619549.