http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Crawling-threads/article14010109.ece

Seen a palm leaf rolled up in a strange manner? Take a chance and peek into the ‘roll’ and you’ll probably see a pristine white creature inside, which looks like a jumble of waste white thread. These are the caterpillars of the Giant Red Eye Butterfly (Gangara thyrsis), possibly the largest butterflies found in India.According to butterfly enthusiast Ashok Sengupta, “The female lays her eggs on the leaves of palms that are large and easily noticed. They are also known to lay eggs on coconut and date leaves. The adult white caterpillar feeds on the palm leaves and mostly stays under the leaf. During pupation the caterpillar is believed to enter into a cell formed by weaving the leaves to form a small cylindrical tunnel. The pupa is known to produce a hissing sound when approached by intruders.”He also adds that gardeners often get rid of the larvae and pupal cell from the plant as they feel they spoil the look of the plant. However, these butterflies are pollinators for plants with large flowers and their existence is needed for a sustainable eco-system.So what is a skipper? According to Wiki, a skipper or skipper butterfly is a butterfly of the Hesperiidae family. They are named after their quick, darting flight habits.Nature lover Abhisheka Krishnagopal says, “I recently saw the white thread like caterpillar of the giant red eye butterfly on a palm leaf. I was excited. My neighbour, who saw it was flabbergasted to see that it looked like a cotton thread.”Abhisheka also believes that even in an urban environment, if we can provide “a little green space in our homes and keep off pesticides, smaller wildlife can thrive. We always enjoy the presence of butterflies around us. With insects also come a variety of insectivorous birds to brighten our gardens and homes. It’s important that we observe biodiversity around us and not just in national parks and holiday resorts,” she adds.She finally quotes James E. Lovelock, “Because we are urban dwellers we are obsessed with human problems. We are so alienated from the world of nature that few of us can name the wild flowers and insects of our locality or notice the rapidity of their extinction.”And that, in a nutshell, is the reason why we need to live and let live and enjoy these little beauties of nature’s bounty, found in our own gardens.