http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/CRDA-to-allot-returnable-plots-to-farmers-by-April/article14013407.ece

The AP Capital Region Development Authority (CRDA) is mulling over allotting developed/returnable plots by this April.The CRDA authorities have “almost sorted out” the issues relating to the returnable plots. The size of the returnable plots is being finalised.A step before that, the CRDA will have to complete the ongoing process of receiving objections and suggestions on the draft master plan. A final notification on the master plan is likely to be issued in February. The rigmarole of inviting objections and suggestions on the final master plan would follow it. The CRDA would prepare plans for each village thereafter.But the returnable plots would be allotted through lottery system, which has become a bone of contention. A section of farmers is sceptical that it would not get developed plots in its own village.Farmers recall that the government had promised that the developed plots would be allotted in their village itself.More particularly jareebu farmers are agitated.Their apprehension is not unfounded as the GO 84 dated April 17, 2015, lucidly says, “The location of the “Reconstituted Plot” will be retained as close to its original location as possible, subject to specific planning concerns. Party No. 2 reserves the right to locate the Reconstituted Plots as per the approved policy of the Government of A.P./CRDA. The land owners who have executed development agreement for jareebu lands under the LPS shall be given reconstituted plots as near as possible to the jareebu lands.”CRDA Commissioner N. Srikanth, however, says, “By and large, the farmers would get returnable plots in the vicinity of their village/land. And, as per the government’s assurance, the jareebu farmers will get returnable lands in jareebu areas.” In a few villages it might not be possible if zoning system envisaged in the perspective plan was to be considered. Notwithstanding, the CRDA is expecting that the returnable plots exercise would be completed by April-May first week, he says.The CRDA would allot the developed plots in proportion to the lands parted with by the farmers. The CRDA is considering various options and issues involved in the size of the plot. If a farmer has to get 120 sq. yards plot and the standard developed plot is 125 sq. yards, the farmer would have to pay the amount for remaining 5 sq. yards. The CRDA is contemplating allotting developed plots with a size of 125 square yards to 4,000 sq. yards. It is planning to give farmers plots of 1,000 sq yards, 700 sq yards, and 500 sq yards. Similarly, if a farmer is to get more sq. yards than what is allotted is another issue. The government is contemplating issuing saleable certificate by calculating the value of the remaining sq. yards.Complex issueFor every acre of land pooled, 800-1,000 sq yards of residential and 100-450 sq yd of commercial land has to be returnedSince a major portion of the riverfront is marked as commercial zone, farmers are apprehensive about allocation in other areasLand Pooling Scheme Ownership Certificates will be issued to the farmers as part of returnable lands