http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/Crime-under-control-time-to-clear-garbage/article13977428.ece

The lawmakers here seem to be rule breakers, at least in the civic sense. The headquarters of the city police in the heart of Bengaluru is not just strewn with litter, but also houses a black spot where waste of every kind is dumped without being segregated.The area behind the six-storey state-of-the-art head office has become a dump for leftovers, plastic cups and paper plates in the absence of a designated spot for waste disposal. This, even as the BBMP has been urging citizens across the city to segregate waste at source and adopt the ‘two bins, one bag’ system.A senior police officer, who is in-charge of housekeeping, said, “We depend on the BBMP’s pourakarmikas to clear the waste. However, sometimes it takes several days by which time, the garbage starts stinking.”Status of govt. officesBBMP’s Special Commissioner (Solid Waste Management) Subodh Yadav said that most government buildings and public sector undertakings came under the category of bulk generators. “As per the rules, they are expected to make their own arrangements for waste disposal. The BBMP has a list of empanelled contractors, whose services they can avail.”“The problem with government offices, such as Vidhana Soudha, Vikasa Soudha and M.S. Building, is that there is no clarity on whom to contact to address this issue,” he pointed out, and added that he would depute officials to address these problems.Waste management expert Nalini Shekar, who is part of Hasiru Dala that offers waste disposal solutions to corporates and apartment complexes, said that government offices should compulsorily segregate waste and become models for citizens to emulate.“Unless they do it themselves, they cannot expect citizens to fall in line,” she said.BBMP Commissioner G. Kumar Naik said, “Segregation can be done easily. Government offices must segregate and show the citizens that it is not a complicated task. I will write to heads of various government departments urging them to segregate waste at source. If required, we can depute local health officers to explain the process and create awareness among government employees.”