http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/letters/Cruelty-as-sport/article13992159.ece

The Central government has modified the 2011 notification which prohibited the use of bulls in sports (“Jallikattu in T.N., bullock cart race in Maharashtra cleared,” Jan.09). By taking such a step despite opposition from the Animal Welfare Board of India and despite advice against it by Attorney-General Mukul Rohatgi, the government has chosen tradition over animal welfare.We cannot allow the bulls to suffer such abominable cruelty in the name of tradition. Article 25 of the Constitution, which gives the citizens the freedom of religion, also gives the government the power to regulate any secular aspect of religion. Given the fact that bullfighting has been banned even in Spain, where it was a traditional sport, the move to lift ban on a similar sport in India is likely to mar our image.Mohit Mishra,Shahdara, DelhiThe notification is in direct violation of a 2014 Supreme Court judgment and also goes against the ban issued by the Environment Ministry in 2011. The stance by political parties in Tamil Nadu welcoming the notification and claiming credit for restoring the practice is highly deplorable. Those who advocate for this deadly sport should read Bhoomiyude Avakashikal (The Inheritors of the Earth) by the Malayalam littérateur Vaikom Muhammad Basheer, which proclaims that every creature in this universe has got the right to live, just like man does.K.K. Abdullah,KozhikodeDespite the fact that it is a traditional sport, jallikattu violates several provisions of Constitution like Articles 21 and 51A (g) and also goes against provisions contained in the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act. The decision of the government to permit the sport is obnoxious. The 2014 Supreme Court verdict banning the sport has been overlooked in favour of vote bank politics. There is a need for the government to reassess the decision.Prerna Singh,New DelhiThe notification issued by the Centre permitting jallikattu is retrograde and disheartening, more so as it has overlooked the Attorney-General’s advice that the decision will go against the Supreme Court order. What is even more distressing is the welcoming of the Centre’s notification by the regional parties of a progressive State like Tamil Nadu and the muted response of the national parties, while the public at large do not seem to be very enthused.The conditions imposed appear to be only superfluous. Who can ensure and how that a provoked and a charged-up bull is tamed within a radial distance of 15 metres once out of the enclosure? Who would be held responsible in the case of human and animal casualties? Only time will tell whether or not the BJP government’s attempt to reach out to the people in the State politically through such a regressive path, without heeding to its own Minister Maneka Gandhi, will succeed.B.Harish,Mangaluru