http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Culture-burns-bright/article13997407.ece

Songs, dances, ballads, rituals, performing arts…they constitute Kerala’s rich and diverse culture and heritage. They reproduce the life, outlook and attitude of the people. The temples of Kerala have always acted as a centre for arts and a breeding ground for the artistes. And this continues even today.The Thamaramkulangara Sree Dharma Sastha Temple, Tripunithura, has not just acted as a patron of the traditional performing arts but gone a step ahead. The annual souvenir, Makarajyothi, published under the aegis of the Thamaramkulangara Ayyappa Seva Samithi is a detailed documentation of the various art forms, the rituals, mural art, elephants, and the many other elements that are indispensable to a temple or temple festivals.This year’s Makarajyothi is an exploration into the various possibilities and aspects of performing art forms – classical, folk, and ritual in relevance to temples.Articles by scholars and performers reveal hitherto unknown facts, various facets of many art forms. Dr. K.G. Paulose, former Vice-Chancellor, Kerala Kalamandalam and a well-known art and language scholar dwells into essence of traditional or ritual art forms, while Dr. C. Venugopal, Head of Department, Dance, Sanskrit University and a trained dancer, charts the history of dance from the Vedic age.Scholars like Dr. Lalimol S., Dr. C.P. Unnikrishnan, Dr. Ratnakara Mallamoola, Dr. E. Sreedharan, noted gurus like Malathi G. Menon and Kala Vijayan, K.P. Achyuthan of the International Centre for Koodiyattam, performers Asha Muralidharan, Sowmya Balagopal, Suchitra Visweswaran, Haripriya Namboodiri, Kalamandalam Prabhakaran and Ammannur Rajneesh Chakyar have contributed their thoughts and ideas in the souvenir. Also included is Ayyappa Suprabhatam by Shivan Edoop.The pick of the contents are the articles by noted Mohiniyattam exponent Methil Devika and the Theyyam artiste P. Krishnan Master.Devika touches a chord with her account of the last of the living Devadasis, Sashimani Debi, in Puri, Odisha. Through Sashimani Debi she flits through the history of classical dance from the temple walls to the modern era. Krishnan Master provides a detailed account of the origin and evolution of Theyyam.What the editors could have included in this souvenir are articles on Krishnanattam, Ayyappan Theeyattu and Kurathiattam.“This is the 14th edition of Makarajyothi. Every year we choose a specific theme that is one way or the other linked with our temple, traditions, heritage or culture. In fact, the Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Akademi has collected all the volumes for their library,” says Ajithkumar Varma, president of the Samithi.Makarajyothi, at least in a small way, helps safeguard expressions of our rich oral heritage and ancient culture that are at a risk of disappearing fast.