http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Food/Currying-flavour/article13986409.ece

The word curry has different connotations in different parts of the world. A friend of mine who was recently visiting her family in England told me she cooked a curry dinner for the extended family there. She immediately added, “That is what they call Indian food in the UK!” But, for those of us in India, a curry means a gravy dish with a meat or vegetable. There are so many regional variations of it. Thai curries are a completely different category.Years ago, I walked into a fine foods store in Paris that sold spices and spice mixes and was intrigued to find a jar of curry powder in the rack. I bought myself a few ounces to bring back home and explore further. Since then I have used it in soups, satay marinades, roast potatoes and gravies. In the U.K. and elsewhere in the world, the curry powder is the go-to magic ingredient to give an Indian flavour to dishes. There are mild and hot versions available in stores. Madras curry powder is a popular variation.Interestingly, the curry powder has a ubiquitous presence wherever the British have had an influence historically. In the popular South African dishes like Bobotie and Bunny Chow, the curry powder plays a significant role. Similarly, the Singapore noodles, which may have its origins in Hong Kong, also calls for the use of curry powder. Curry powders are also frequently used in Jamaican gravies.The curry powder is unlike our garam masala or other spice mixes. In fact, the flavour may even seem strangely foreign to many in India. A generous dose of turmeric in the curry powder gives it a distinctive flavour and colour. Some food experts argue that the curry powder is closer in taste and flavour to the Tamil sambhar powder than the garam masala from the north of India. But Tamilians may not find too many similarities between their beloved sambhar powder and the curry powder.Recently, I found tins of Madras curry powder sitting on the shelf of a supermarket in Ooty and picked it up immediately. Add a little bit to a coconut milk-based gravy or an onion-tomato gravy with chicken and voila! You have Madras chicken curry! This is a quick and easy way for foreigners to replicate the taste of India in their kitchens.In Indian kitchens, we can use this curry powder to add innovative twists to recipes in our repertoire. Or use it the way they do in the rest of the world to whip up quick gravies when hard-pressed for time. Curry mayonnaise can be made by just adding a little curry powder to mayonnaise and served with French fries and fried fish or added to burgers to give it a gourmet spin.Use a simple marinade of curry powder and coconut milk for chicken or prawn. Then grill the marinated meat and serve with a Thai peanut sauce. Curry powder goes well with potatoes, cauliflower, chickpeas and eggs. Roast potatoes or cauliflower with a sprinkle of curry powder is refreshing to the palate. A little curry powder in egg salad or devilled eggs gives the dishes an exotic appeal. Ready-made curry powders can be bought from fine food stores or it can be made easily at home, with a few common ingredients.Curry powderIngredients3 tbsp coriander seeds1 1/2 tbsp cumin seeds1 tbsp fennel seeds5 red chillies1 tsp yellow mustard seeds1/2 tsp white peppercorns1 tsp dry ginger1 tbsp turmeric powderMethod: Dry roast the whole spices until just fragrant. Cool and dry them to a coarse powder in a blender. Add the individual spice powders and mix well. Store in an airtight jar for up to six months.