http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Curtain-comes-down-on-theatre-fete/article14002672.ece

The eighth International Theatre Festival of Kerala concluded here on Saturday. In all, 33 performances of 20 plays from ten countries were held during the last seven days. With the theme ‘Body Politics,’ various theatre groups from Japan, Turkey, Algeria, Lebanon, Singapore, Iran, Malaysia and Germany presented the plays.Theatre buffs could experience various experiments and styles in the international, national and regional theatre at the festival. The plays discussed topics including, war and peace, sexuality, masculinity and gender issues.A Male ant Has Straight Antennae by Mandeep Raikhy had a very different form deconstructing the notions about masculinity. “It was a process of deleting all the inherent ideas about masculinity and to start fresh,” said Mandeep.Battle Scene by Zoukak Theatre from Lebanon was a play of actions and body movements. “It is like how you enter a battle scene,” said director Omar Abi Azar. The movements and actions in the play express the insecurities of people during war.Colour of Trans 2.0 depicted the problems experienced by transgenders. “Theatre provides space to make audience question some of their own prejudices,” said Gee Imaan Semmalar, performer and co-writer of the play.“The play is our own experiences in life and so the roles were self representing. I have been doing theatre for the past ten years and this is the first time I am performing as a transgender,” said Living Smile Vidya, director and co-writer of the play. The audience said the play was an eye-opener and productions like this should come more often.Cheerleaders are collectively a non-entity in the context of a game. They manipulate or negotiate the crowd’s responses precisely, said Daniel Kok, choreographer of the dance drama, Cheerleader of Europe . Waiting by Mokhallad Rasem was a reflection about the fundamental human experience of waiting. Heavens by Zoukak Theatre, Lebanon, F-1/105 by Aasakta Kalamanch, Pune, Matthi by Malayala Kalanilayam Natakavedi, Kerala, and Thoda Dhyaan Se by Mallika Taneja, New Delhi, were staged on Saturday.