http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Mangalore/Cycling-fever-grips-Mangaluru/article14009966.ece

Cycling fever gripped Mangaluru post-Sankranthi with different groups venturing into expeditions during the weekend.While a few ventured for day-and-night cycling to Agumbe, Kundadri-Kudremukh, some first-timers cycled 100 km in a day and some pedalled to the Kudremukh Ghat, from Friday till Sunday.Sarvesh Samaga, who had participated in Bhutan cycling expedition last year, planned night-day cycling to Agumbe and beyond. He was joined by Anil Shet, Shyamprasad Nayak, Lakshmisha and 16-year-old Smith Javiya.Mr. Nayak said the route was a mixture of flat, rolling and extreme climb terrains. They left Mangaluru on Saturday afternoon to reach Agumbe (112 km) for an overnight stay. On Sunday morning, they moved towards Kundadri (over 800 m tall) and successfully pedalled to the summit. Mr. Javiya too was able to match the seniors with a single stop during the climb.Then they proceeded to Sringeri, from there to Kudremukh via SK Border and returned to Mangaluru on Sunday night via Karkala. It was quite adventurous, said Mr. Samaga and added the expedition was equally tiring. Four cyclists under the guidance of Atree Book’s Ashoka Vardhana made the best use of Sankranthi holiday when they ‘conquered’ Kudremukh. Starting from Mangaluru on Friday morning, the group comprising K.S. Venuvinod, Chinmaya Delampady and Aravind pedalled through Padubidri, Karkala before reaching the foothills of Kudremukh at Mala. From there, it was steep climb continuously for about 16 km, said Mr. Venuvinod.After S.K. Border, the terrain was a mixture of descents and ascends and it was well past afternoon when they reached Kudremukh Township. Though they intended to return the same day to complete 200 km ride, their legs did not cooperate and they stayed back.The return ride was awesome and they enjoyed the nature in its best. While the rivulets on the entire stretch had been as pristine as they were, people had thrown all kinds of garbage into them, regretted Mr. Delampady.On Sunday morning, the Mangaluru Bicycle Club members ventured into a group expedition—completing 100 km ride in a single day. While a few of them had already done 100 km at a stretch, 14 of the 20 members in the group were yet to achieve the feat.Starting from Mangaluru at 5 a.m., the members pedalled along NH 66 towards Padubidri and Udyavara, getting intermittent breaks. They returned to Mangaluru by 12.30 p.m. achieving the feat while MBC decorated them with 100 km League 2016 Certificate and League Badge. The club is now planning 200 km league next month.