http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/Dalit-student%E2%80%99s-suicide-may-cast-a-shadow-on-GHMC-polls/article14008903.ece

The suicide of Rohith Vemula, a research scholar at the University of Hyderabad and subsequent registering of a case of abetment against the Union Minister of State for Labour, Bandaru Dattatreya appears to be heading towards becoming a major issue in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections.The case has come with just a fortnight left for the city’s tryst with the ballot to elect the 150-ward civic body and at a time when the BJP was trying to settle the dust of seat-sharing with its alliance partner TDP and fine-tune the campaign strategy. And Mr. Dattatreya being a leader of long standing from the city and the only Union Minister from the city, he was ranked high among the key party campaigners for the elections. Commercial Taxes Minister T. Srinivas Yadav of TRS, said the reasons behind the suicide by the university student have spread like wildfire on the social media. “The student community and youngsters are agitated and it is a setback for the alliance,” he said, while adding that his party would not indulge in ‘petty politics with the unfortunate suicide’ case in the elections. If the development has created certain unease for TDP, it so far has refrained from airing it. Leaders, refusing to be quoted, however maintain the civic polls were being fought on local issues and amenities. “The suicide was unfortunate and should not have happened. That said, we feel the local body polls are different and Mr. Dattatreya’s name being included in the case does not affect our prospects,” said a TDP leader.BJP State president G. Kishan Reddy said that the suicide and case against Mr. Dattatreya would have no impact on the poll campaign of the party. “The elections are fought on issues that concern local issues and civic amenities and anyway the facts related to the suicide case will emerge in the next few days,” he said.Inclusion of Union Minister’s name in the case will not affect our prospects: BJP-TDP