http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Dance-for-enviable-figure/article14010178.ece

The moment you see a style icon on TV, you instantly imagine the fatigue she encounters in long hours of workout sessions and a strict no-to-calories attitude. But Pernia Qureshi’s fitness mantra might take you by surprise as she does not believe in either of these two extremes. The fashion entrepreneur’s idea is simple – do something that you love and makes you sweat.Sharing her fitness routine, Pernia, who made her debut in Bollywood with the role of a courtesan in Muzaffar Ali’s Jaanisaar, says, “I love to dance and as I have been dancing since the age of three. I am so used to dancing that if I miss out on it due to travelling or anything else, my body sets off into a sleeping mode. I need dancing and my body craves for it. I just love it.”Attributing dance for playing a pivotal role in sporting a fat-free body, Pernia, a trained Kuchipudi dancer, says, “I dance and that keeps me fit. Sweating once a day is very important; it makes you feel happy and cuts out on stress.”She also goes on to advise everyone as she claims that for every person it is very important to exercise. “You can do cycling, yoga, dance or any other thing that you enjoy and feel like. Eat whatever you like but loving your body is very important as mental, economic and physical well-being of a person are wheels of the same wagon. Love your body and enjoy it as a part of yourself, and most importantly feel good about it, be fit not to earn praises but health and happiness.”Asked about the tendency to have a size zero physique which can be an inspiration for many people, Pernia says, “It is not necessary to be stick-thin, I believe beauty comes in all forms and shapes. It is important to be healthy. An individual must be healthy for himself. Weight concerns and ideal body shapes are just social sub-standards that exist only in minds and have no actual importance that society might impose on an individual.”Pernia, a product of Indian and Pakistani ethnicity, shares a bond with both the countries and says, “I love hospitality of both the countries. Whether you go to India or Pakistan, whichever home you step in you will be welcomed with a warm and open heart.”Pernia breaks the pre-conceived notion about no-to-calories attitude when it comes to diet. . “I am a big foodie, I eat everything. I love my wine, I love my champagne and tempting chocolates. I do not diet but I am very fit because I am very active and work a lot.”