http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/DC-recommends-cancellation-of-plot-allotments/article14017560.ece

The land allocation scam at the Raichur Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) took a new turn with Deputy Commissioner S. Sasikanth Senthil strongly recommending the immediate cancellation of all land allotments and redoing the entire allotment process. The scam surfaced March last year.Basing himself on the investigation conducted by Dr. Sunitha Sidram, Deputy Registrar of Cooperative Societies, Raichur, Mr. Senthil wrote to Mahendra Jain, Additional Chief Secretary to the Department of Cooperation on Friday, pin-pointing irregularities and gross violations of provisions of the Agricultural Produce Marketing (Regulation of Allotment of Property in Market Yards) Rules, 2004 and 2007 in the allotment of lands to traders. He clearly indicted APMC president Narasanagowda and secretary V.B. Pujar for irregularities and violations in the land allotment.“... I am of the opinion that the act of commission, omission, ways and methods adopted in allotting the plots is illegal. The then secretary of APMC with his staff (and) the then president of APMC (has) shown their high handedness in achieving their illegal object. I strongly recommend the immediate vitiation of the entire process and to cancel all allotments and to redo the entire allotment after following due procedure. It is also imperative to state the entire illegality was done with the intention of grabbing valuable land, thereby doing great injustice to other eligible traders,” the letter stated.An observation is made in the investigation report, a copy of which is with The Hindu , that only those applicants who had obtained trading licences before the notification was issued and furnished details of payment of applicable cess and taxes are eligible for plot allotment.The report pointed out that the first 26 people in the allotee-list had obtained licence only after the notification was issued and the last date of submission of applications was over.It said that the allotment of plots to these applicants was illegal and violated rules of the Agricultural Produce Marketing (Regulation of Allotment of Property in Market Yards) Rules, 2004.Basing on this point, Mr. Senthil held Mr. Pujar responsible for not maintaining seniority list of the licensed marketing functionaries on the basis of registration and stressed that a number of plots were allotted to ineligible members who obtained license only a few days before the allotment. “This squarely indicates connivance and circumvention of rules and procedures to serve vested interests,” he stated in the letter. Mr. Senthil has pointed out violations in maintaining mandatory reservations for Backward Classes in the allotment by stating that the plots reserved for applicants of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes were allotted to other members without approval of the president or council of APMC violating Rule 8(2) of the aforementioned rules.He has also objected the lower value fixed by APMC for each plot by saying, “Determination of value of site is not in accordance with Rule 4(1), 2(3) of the said rules.”It could be noted here that 28 plots meant for establishing cotton ginning and processing units were sold at Rs. 40 per sq.ft. and 55 plots meant for establishing wholesale vegetables trading units were allotted at Rs. 80 per sq.ft. The market rate in this rapidly developing industrial belt is between Rs. 800 and Rs. 1,200 a sq.ft. Mr. Senthil concluded with a recommendation to conduct a detailed enquiry to initiate further steps against those involved in the scandal.