http://www.thehindu.com/sport/cricket/de-Kock-hits-century-South-Africa-475-all-out-in-4th-test/article14015979.ece

South Africa posted 475 all out in its first innings against England in the fourth and final test after a bullish maiden century from recalled wicketkeeper Quinton de Kock on Saturday.De Kock clubbed 129 in quick time off 128 balls, and rallied the middle and lower order with partnerships of 62 with Temba Bavuma, 50 with Kyle Abbott, and then 82 for the ninth wicket with Dane Piedt, who made just 19 of those runs.That helped the Proteas pass 400 for only the second time in 10 tests, and raise hopes of a consolation win in the series.England has already won the four—match series with an unassailable 2—0 lead, but is seeking an extra bit of history. England could become the first touring team in 10 years and only the second team since 1992 to win three tests in a series in South Africa.South Africa added 146 to its overnight score of 329—5 at SuperSport Park, with De Kock hitting 17 fours and two sixes. On 25 overnight, he scored 60 off 63 balls in the first session and then another 44 off 34 deliveries after lunch before Ben Stokes picked up his fourth wicket to end the innings.Allrounder Stokes was again outstanding with 4—86, and Moeen Ali and Stuart Broad took two wickets each, but England missed crucial chances off all three of the batsmen who have made big scores.Debutant Stephen Cook was dropped twice on the first day before making 115 for the Proteas’ first maiden hundred of the test. Hashim Amla was missed on 5 and went on to score 109.De Kock survived two chances on Saturday morning- First, he sent a thick outside edge when on 28 through gully toward Stokes, who went high to his right but dropped a tough, one—handed chance. On 80, a De Kock edge flew between wicketkeeper Jonny Bairstow and first slip Alastair Cook, with neither of them moving.De Kock was particularly harsh on spinner Ali, hitting a back—foot pull for six toward the swimming pool on the edge of the midwicket boundary at Centurion. His other six went flying straight down the ground, also off Ali.De Kock’s first test hundred in his eighth match arrived when he squeezed a shot out toward the covers, and seized on a misfield to scamper through. He leaped and punched the air to celebrate.The left—handed wicketkeeper—batsman was initially dropped for this series, then recalled for the second test. He missed out on the third test in Johannesburg in bizarre circumstances because of a knee sprain he sustained when he fell over at his house while walking his dogs. In his absence, England clinched its first series win over South Africa in 11 years.At SuperSport Park, England did get rid of Bavuma and tailender Kagiso Rabada quickly on the second morning, and had a glimpse of wrapping up South Africa’s tail early with the home team 336—7.Bavuma nicked behind off Broad in the day’s fourth over. James Anderson trapped Rabada lbw for a duck with an in—swinger.De Kock found a solid enough partner in Abbott, and an even better one in Piedt.