http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/De-siltation-to-be-taken-up-in-irrigation-projects/article14018798.ece

The district administration plans to carry out de-siltation work in major irrigation projects like Sri Ram Sagar and Nizam Sagar, and medium projects such as Pocharam, Singeetham, Ramadugu and Koulas, under the Employment Guarantee Scheme.Keeping in view the acute drought conditions prevailing in the district, the State government has also given administrative sanction to launch the de-siltation of projects as it would provide large-scale employment to unemployed persons in rural areas during this long dry spell. Therefore, it allowed the Collector and other officials to take the decision on the proposals for work at their level instead of sending them to the government.As per the decision taken, principle works worth Rs.50 lakh could be undertaken immediately to remove residues from the projects. Collector Yogitha Rana has already asked the Irrigation authorities to prepare proposals for the work and accord the technical sanctions within a week.Infrastructure neededTo expedite the works simultaneously at all the projects, required infrastructure needs to be made ready before launching the work. Camps for coolies, cradles for their children, medical aid centres, and drinking water facilities need to come up at the camps.Meanwhile, there are several doubts remaining as regards to the engagement of tractors, tippers and other vehicles to transport the sediment and where to dump it.When contacted, the Superintending Engineer, Irrigation, C. Gangadhar, said that removal of all the sludge in projects may not be possible, but residue can be relocated to a certain extent. Only certain leads would be taken up in medium projects. Villages nearby would be identified to place the removed silt, he said.In fact, the removal of sludge from the SRSP came up for serious discussion when D. Varaprasad was the Collector some five years back. It was planned to press into service about 5,000 vehicles, and farmers were requested to volunteer to transport silt in their tractors. However, the idea was somehow given up reasons unknown.Now, it remains to be seen whether the new plan would come to fruition.