http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Deal-seals-fate-of-%E2%80%98Leaning-Tower-of-Hyderabad%E2%80%99/article13988109.ece

The recent deal between Hyderabad Metro Rail Limited and Sultan Bazaar traders on limiting the road widening to 65 feet may still see bulldozing of two listed heritage buildings, one of which embellished the quirky side of city’s history earning the title, “Leaning Tower of Hyderabad”.Coincidentally, the deal was struck a few days after the government decided to delete Regulation 13 from Hyderabad Urban Development Authority’s zoning regulations which was the only hope of safeguarding heritage buildings. The two listed heritage structures facing threat, Nanauji Shah building and Raja Bhagwandas building are on Sultan Bazar stretch (Andhra Bank to Bata) and were listed for their architectural value along with ‘Bhoot Bungalow’ in Hashmath Gunj and the famed Clock Tower near Government Maternity Hospital.By virtue of their very location skirting the busy road, chances of survival of these two buildings look bleak though the deal was all about restricting the originally planned widening from 80 feet to 65 feet to placate the traders. There is no specific mention of safeguarding these two heritage buildings though the agreement between HMRL and traders speaks of not disturbing “religious and sensitive structures”. It is a different story, however, that this deal entered with Telangana Traders Joint Action Committee is being challenged by the Sultan Bazar Building Owners Association.The Raja Bhagwandas building is a huge three-storeyed early 19{+t}{+h}century structure with a Rangoon teak facade typified by overhanging balcony in vernacular style of architecture. For those with a discerning eye, this building appears unintentionally tilting towards the road as if weighed down by the projected balconies and first recorded during a Ford Foundation study on conservation of historical buildings and areas. Noted architects like S. P. Shorey have been describing it as “Leaning Tower of Hyderabad”.The inside of the building has a courtyard and wooden staircase leading to long winding balconies and a number of rooms.Seen along with nearby ‘Bhoot Bungalow’, which got its name as it remained deserted and haunted for over two decades, Raja Baghwandas building adds peculiar chapter to the history of buildings of the place worth preserving for posterity.The haunted house is located in Hashmat Gunj, a grain market that was named after the British Resident, James Achilles Kirkpatrick, his rapport with the Nizams earning him the title of Hashmat Jung.The other structure, Nanauji Shah building, has been a learning centre for the students of architecture from JNTU.One batch after another has been spending hours studying, documenting and marvelling at the architecture and craftsmanship seen in this Rajasthani style building. Hidden behind signboards, projected wooden balconies, ornamental iron railings, intricately carved sunshades, stucco in lime and mortar, speak of the aesthetic sense of the trading communities from Rajasthan and Gujarat who made Hyderabad their home. Old residents of Sultan Bazaar recall that there were many such buildings reflecting the character of the place having over 150-year-old turbulent history.Should we not preserve at least two of them? For over a century, it used to be called the Residency Bazaar, located close to the British Residency precincts (now housing the Osmania University College for Women).It evolved as a suburb around the Residency over a period of time, a spillover of the overpopulated walled city across the Musi.But the area’s administration became a bone of contention between the Nizams and the British Residents, till it was resolved during the time of the seventh Nizam , Mir Osman Ali Khan and T.H. Keyes, the British Resident. It was restored to the Nizam in June, 1933, when it was renamed Sultan Bazaar.