http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Debutante-Arthana-in-a-comfort-zone/article13995947.ece

HYDERABAD: Arthana from Kerala makes her debut in Seetamma Andalu Ramayya Sitralu. She started off her acting stint, a childhood passion, with television anchoring. That was her first experience with camera.Thereafter she modelled for advertisements and was offered many films.Arthana explains how she bagged this film. “Actually my entry to the Telugu industry was through Facebook. Someone found my photo on the social media, contacted me and things moved swiftly. I got many offers from Malayalam industry but I didn't like most of the subjects.It is only after completing this Telugu movie, that I signed a Malayalam project helmed by Bipin Das, a newcomer and my co-star is Gokul Suresh, Suresh Gopi's son. They saw me anchoring for a television programme and offered me the movie.”She adds, “I initially thought I will finish my studies and consider that but they insisted that I come down . Mom, sister, grandparents were encouraging, they had just one deal with me — I should not quit my studies. Seetamma Andalu Ramayya Sitralu. .”The exuberant and articulate Arthana has found company in the Malayali music director Gopi Sunder who is also working on Naga Chaitanya's film Majnu.Arthana quips, “I always admire his songs, talent. I never imagined that I will dance to his songs or act in a movie in which he is a music director.I had even interviewed him for a television programme. He recognised me in Hyderabad.”She adds, “ Seetamma Andalu is a cute love story, a pucca entertainer that you can watch with your family. I play the title role.I'm not at liberty to reveal the story but I can say I am lucky to work with Raj Tarun, he is a thorough gentleman. The director is a skilled man, he has immense clarity. I am aware this is his first film and I am sure he will go places."Though she has already faced the camera, Arthana says every time she faces the camera, it’s like the first time; there’s fear and trepidation always. She avers, “I would watch dubbed films of Telugu in Malayalam right from childhood, so am not entirely new to Telugu stars. The first film I watched was Uyyala Jampala, my co-star's debut movie.”Arthana is presently pursuing her graduation in journalism, mass com and video production. She wants to study further and is hoping to balance it with her movie career. Can she dance too? She says frankly,I am not a trained dancer...I don't know how I am managing it but it is all going well. I joined the dance class but wasn't able to go to more than three or four classes.”