http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/Decoding-the-successful-startup/article13994028.ece

A great founding team, thorough knowledge of the market, and the ability to take risks make for a good ventureRecently, the Wharton India Economic Forum hosted the last leg of its startups’ competition in Mumbai, where one company of a final 10, would get the grand prize of $30,000. This number, too, had been whittled down from some 750 applicants at the start of the contest. Ketto, a crowd-sourced startup for social causes, and helmed by actor Kunal Kapoor, bagged the top prize.This is just one competition, in just one city. Every day, dozens of startups make their debut, get funded, or crash out of the running. So what makes for a successful venture? Here’s how investors, mentors, accelerators, and even a former entrepreneur, decode the successful startup.Team, team, teamEvery good startup needs a great founding team. “Data shows us that three co-founders is an ideal number,” says Sasha Mirchandani, MD of Kae Capital. “Three people, who’ve known each other well, perhaps been colleagues or classmates. They should have worked at other companies before starting something of their own. In other words, they should have been around the block a couple of times.”Experience counts for everything. “A strong team will be able to navigate and overcome all kinds of challenges that the market throws up,” says Pranav Malhotra of the International Finance Corporation (IFC). The founding team must also have some domain knowledge. “If you [as a founder] don’t have it, make sure others around you do,” says Mr Malhotra. A mix-and-match is a must-have in today’s economy: someone with sectoral knowledge, another with some marketing or tech chops. Many e-commerce companies may be so new in their business that they have no successful model to fall back on. No matter.Knowledge of marketThe starting block for a successful startup must be a thorough knowledge of the market and the possible demand for the product/service offered. Is there a big demand out there? Is it likely to grow, so you can scale up? Startups need to ask themselves these questions.When Aprameya Radhakrishna decided to launch TaxiForSure, it was because he was certain of two things. “Everybody commutes, whether for work or pleasure, and almost everyone has encountered some challenges while doing so,” he says.Mr Radhakrishna also discovered that taxis, in most metros, were complaining about not getting enough passengers. The opportunity was just staring Radhakrishna in the face so he put the two together and launched his company.But market size isn’t just a numbers game; it’s also about perspective and positioning. VT Bharadwaj, MD of Sequoia Capital, says: “If you ask me if there is a market for packaged aam ras in India, I would say no. But when you say you want to launch a juice to counter the colas, the perspective changes. Suddenly there is a huge potential.” Startups, who try to inflate their market size in a bid to snag investors, beware. You will get caught in the inevitable shakedown, when the competition starts heating up. “Better to be realistic and spend time studying the market to see how much of a share you need to get your projections right,” says Mr Bharadwaj.It’s all about timingThis is a tough one. There is a fine line between an idea whose time has come, and one whose time has come and gone, says Mr Mirchandani. “After all these years, we are still grappling with this one,” he says. If the startup is cutting corners to get that great idea off the ground right away, it might want to pull back a bit.Differentiation is important too, says Mr Bharadwaj. “It’s not just about how big my market is, but am I also doing something different which maximises my chance for success and profitability,” he says. “Ultimately, the thing that matters is whether you will have business that makes money – and that can only come about if you have a differentiated strategy.”“Many startups don’t realise the need for governance. To abide by regulatory authorities in terms of taxation working practices or simply going ahead with their business models,” says Harsh Mariwala, chairman of Marico industries, who also runs Ascent, a startup accelerator. “If you’re working on the wrong side of the law, the word will spread.”More importantly, says Ronnie Screwvala , founder of UTV Group and Unilazer Ventures: “Are you building a company with your eyes and vision, or creating something you know an investor will want. Because then, your approach is flawed from the start. Just don’t be mixed up.”Have the stomach (and heart) for riskWhen Mr Screwvala first launched his media and entertainment business some decades ago, he couldn’t find people willing to join him. So after every hire, he would accompany the youngster home – to speak to his or her parents and convince them about the new job. “That’s how risk-averse we are, even today,” he says. “It’s in our DNA to be spooked by the idea of failure and think of it as a real setback.” But startups are not for the faint of heart, because failure is almost a given in this business.Instead, suggests Mr Screwvala: “Figure out your ability to take risks before you move ahead. If you’re not able to do it or saying to yourself, ‘We’ll see how this goes’ or ‘we’ll deal with problems when they come up’, it won’t work.” If you can’t take risks, you can’t grow. Simple. “You have to learn to manage adversity,” adds Mr Mariwala.Or, says Mr Bharadwaj: “You might be surprised by a delightful tailwind that could buoy you to success.” He cites the example of juice brand Paperboat. “In the 1990s, it was easy to sell a beverage in India by positioning it as a foreign drink — ads with international models, projecting a lifestyle that Indians aspired to,” he says. “If someone tried to launch a drink in1995, I’d say more power to him. But today, Indians are confident of their culture. This has been a beautiful tailwind — an unexpected cultural nuance — that has supported the success of a company like Paperboat.”Quit while aheadStartup founders must always have an exit strategy, so they can quit when things are not quite going their way, or according to how they envisioned their company. “Have a good exit strategy, if that’s the way you must go,” says Mr Radhakrishna, who successfully sold his company to Ola last year.Kick back and relax, spend more time with the family or travel, may be get used to the idea of living off the big bucks you may have made by selling out.Or simply get on with your next big idea.(The writer is a freelance journalist)