http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/letters/Defying-a-tradition/article14022820.ece

It is good to see that women in India are now more assertive of their rights by trying to break irrational rules (“ >Women marching to Shani temple stopped”, Jan.27). Harping on age-old tradition and culture has become the template for vested interests to exercise control over places of worship. However, to expect changes soon in enabling gender equality will be futile.Victor Frank A.,ChennaiThe incident brings to the fore the never-ending conflict between tradition and modernity. Culture, tradition and practices in our temples draw their strength from a hoary past and do not lend themselves to scientific investigation or rational debate. The moot point, however, is, will women be deprived of the grace of Shani Bhagwan if they are barred from entering the temple? Similarly, will the temple priests gain the favour of god by disallowing darshan to a large section of humanity? It is time that such issues are viewed dispassionately so as not to take our focus away from more pressing matters facing the nation.V. Nagarajan,ChennaiThe agitation appears to be a publicity stunt and has nothing to do with spiritual requirements. Places of worship like Sabarimala and Haji Ali have their own codes of conduct which must be respected. It would be better if women agitate against the practice of dowry, interference by parents and khap panchayats in the choice of life partners and fight for affirmative action in increasing the representation of women, minorities and Dalits in educational institutions, offices and industries.C. Subrahmanyam,VisakhapatnamOf late, the equality claim by womenfolk has reached its climax with activists interfering in age-old traditions of even temples. While nobody refuses to acknowledge the rights and freedom of the women of the nation, the reason behind this denial of entry should also be understood. Though women are said to be on a par with men in various other fields, it cannot be denied that they have certain limitations. The existing rules and regulations of the temple were framed earlier and the activists cannot find fault now with the temple authorities. Women are no more frail nor fragile but bold and brave, but they should realise that protesting against almost every thing will fetch only contempt.Meenakshi Pattabiraman,Madurai