http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/Delhi-Ministers-refuse-to-be-the-odd-one-out/article13975711.ece

Living up to their promise, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and two of his Cabinet Ministers reached the Secretariat in one car following the car rationing scheme.Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia reached office in his odd-numbered vehicle, while two other Cabinet Ministers used public transport.“I am truly overwhelmed by the response we have received. Delhiites have made an impossible task possible,” Mr. Kejriwal told journalists at his residence just before leaving for the Delhi Secretariat.“By and large, Delhiites have welcomed this [odd-even formula] and it has been implemented very successfully so far. I had said earlier that this can only be implemented if people follow it with their hearts and it becomes a movement,” he added.Meanwhile, Mr. Sisodia has decided to cycle to the Delhi Secretariat from his Mathura Road residence on Saturday.“I have an odd-numbered car and I will use it on odd dates. On even dates, I will use my bicycle to get to office. If I have to go somewhere from there, I will carpool with my colleagues or use public transport,” he added.Delhi Tourism Minister Kapil Mishra went to office on a motorcycle, Social and Welfare Minister Sandeep Kumar took a bus from Kashmere Gate to the Delhi Secretariat, while Environment Minister Imran Hussain took used an e-rickshaw to commute from Old Delhi.“It’s great to see people voluntarily following the odd-even scheme,” Mr. Mishra said. The Ministers will follow the same routine over the next fortnight.Senior AAP leader Ashutosh, who hopped on to the Delhi Metro on Friday, said: “We were expecting some teething problems from people, but we are overwhelmed with the way people have responded to it. The result is beyond our expectations.”Most of Delhi government officials used their official vehicle on Friday. An official said nearly 90 per cent of the Delhi government vehicles are odd-numbered and the real test will be on January 4, which is a Monday.“Most of us will be using the metro or buses. Car pooling is an option, but officials are yet to work on that,” added an official.While VIPs are exempted from the scheme, it will not apply to the Delhi Chief Minister and his Cabinet Ministers as they have decided to abide by the rule.