http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/Delhiites-follow-policy/article13975694.ece

: Day one of the odd-even car-rationing plan saw large-scale compliance by Delhiites with only a fraction of the cars on road being even-numbered. Even these were handled with kid gloves by the Delhi Police on Friday as they seemed more on an awareness drive than a penalising one.A total of 202 challans were issued to vehicles violating the odd-even rule by the Delhi Traffic Police and the Delhi government’s Transport Department. The rather low challan figures were attributed by the police to better compliance by Delhiites.Criss-crossing various stretches of the city, The Hindu found that while the claim about low traffic volume and fewer even-numbered vehicles on the road was true, a lot of violations remain unreported and pardoned as well. Requested to explain the “let-offs”, traffic teams said they had instructions to educate and if they found the reason convincing enough, they were simply handed over a pamphlet creating awareness about the initiative.While there were almost no even-numbered vehicles to be seen on the roads during the peak traffic hours on Friday, the numbers slowly increased during the afternoon. While each one of these violators were stopped by traffic police personnel, only a few were penalised and that too at select locations such as ITO. At the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh Apsara border for instance, hardly anyone was fined despite a strong presence of Delhi Police, Delhi Traffic Police and Civil Defence personnel.“We are stopping all even-numbered cars and asking them why they have ventured out despite Friday being an odd day. We are trying to create awareness among motorists and also leaving them with a stern warning that such violations will invite the penalty of Rs. 2,000 from Saturday,” said a traffic policeman at the Apsara border.And as challan figures remained low in the initial hours and the reports of violations were negligible, senior officers at the police headquarters started wondering that the personnel on the ground were complacent in enforcing the rule. “It was then that the Delhi Police Commissioner asked me to take a round myself. To my surprise, vehicles with even number plates were rarely visible and that trend continued as the day progressed,” said Dr. Muktesh Chander, Special Commissioner of Police (Traffic).