http://www.thehindu.com/features/magazine/Deluxe-dining/article14003271.ece

What do a gilded Fabergé egg, a silk kimono, a baroque boudoir and a minimalistic, giant glass box have in common? Besides the obvious luxury and phantasmagorical character of each, there is one rather wild similarity that links them all in the most delicious (do pardon the pun!) way possible. Each object of desire has been the inspiration for über luxurious private dining rooms or PDRs. Cocooned in their chic sequestration, PDRs (as the cognoscenti call them) are slowly carving a niche as symbols of the ultimate dining experience money can buy.We have curated here eight of the country’s best bespoke tables where you can feel like royalty. Places that resonate with decadence. Places that will stun you with the sheer audacity of luxe. Places that take the concept of fine dining into a whole new stratosphere.Tatami Room, Wasabi, Taj Mahal Palace, MumbaiTake a dozen or so of your closest friends, sit them down at a spherical table that harks back to a Fabergé egg in its design. Then have them partake in a meal that has all the nuance and subtle sensuality of a lilting Japanese haiku. Yes, the perfect recipe for a decadent meal is something the Tatami Room at The Taj’s much-fêted Japanese restaurant, Wasabi, takes pride in conjuring up for the discerning diner. Overlooking the city’s iconic Gateway of India, the 12-seater room is a treat for the senses. Curated menus here feature everything from the sublime Black Cod Miso to Lobster Epice, all served up on customised Narumi and Renaut crockery and lubricated with choice picks from over a dozen premium sakes. Kampai!Table for Eight, Olive Beach, BengaluruPaying rich tribute to the rather en vogue ‘rustic chic’ leitmotif, this makes for an intimate setting for eight diners. Reminiscent of an indulgent Italian nonna’s kitchen table in a bucolic Tuscan village, the cozy cabana-esque space in the heart of Bengaluru plays out nouvelle Mediterranean cuisine with all its nuances intact. . From a multi-course tasting menu to a Chef’s Surprise bespoke menu, this is one table that pulls out all the stops for the ultimate dining experience. Expect to indulge in dishes like the subtly smoked Salmon Salad and the flavoursome Tuna Tartare — all made with seasonal produce and a generous helping of cutting-edge creativity.Kimono, MEGU, Leela Palace, New DelhiJust like a Japanese kabuki theatre stage, but with the drama played out on your table, this eight-seater puts on an enthralling show. Kitted out with real silk kimono-clad walls, a unique paper chandelier and doors embellished with rich wooden lacquering, the space is Japanese opulence at its not-so-subtle best. But it is the food here that speaks the loudest — from the Kobe Steak that’s flambéed tableside to the velvety Emerald Dadacha Edamame Soup ladled into specially crafted bowls. Besides a selection of over 60 varieties of sake, you can also pick from nearly 400 labels of fine wines featuring vintages from houses such as Domaine de la Romanee-Conti, La Tache and the hallowed Petrus.The Bedroom, Flying Elephant, Park Hyatt, Chennai Raul DiasWhimsy is the word that comes to mind when dining in this 20-seater sanctum sanctorum that offers tribute to everything baroque. Decked out with silver-gold accented upholstery, a mighty crystal chandelier and a sultry red table, The Bedroom is more boudoir than dining room. Set atop the topmost tier of the multi-levelled The Flying Elephant, this dining room dishes out genre-agnostic fare in keeping with the restaurant’s world cuisine USP. So, expect to dine on an eclectic procession of dishes such as Adana Kebabs from Lucknow, Cantonese Pork Belly and Malaysian Chicken Satay. And don’t forget to ask your private bartender to shake up a prohibition era-inspired cocktail at your very own private bar. Spice Quartet, China House, Grand Hyatt, MumbaiIn keeping with its recent rebranding as a Sichuan restaurant, China House has aptly named its four private dining rooms after the spices so deftly used in the fiery southwestern Chinese cuisine. Ginger, Chilli, Cinnamon and Nutmeg form the quartet, each seating up to 12 diners and each with its own butler. Of course. Replete with an enoteca wall and all the artistic flair of the Chinoiserie style of interior decoration, seen on everything from the silk napkins to the jade-green crockery, private dining at one of these spicy rooms is highly recommended. As for the food, crack open your very own lotus leaf and clay ensconced Beggar’s Chicken or let the chef work his magic tableside with some luscious Peking Duck.The Glass House, BengaluruRevelling in futuristic minimalism and cutting-edge Nordic design, this room pays homage to the glass that surrounds it on three sides, with the fourth wall in rough-hewn concrete. The glass box can seat up to 20 diners, and the Modern European dining experience here gets as personalised as it can. Not only is your meal off an elaborate, customised menu featuring the likes of Mustard Chicken with Sweet and Sour Beans and Stuffed Artichoke Hearts, all served on signature crockery, even the wine for the evening is specially produced for The Glass House by Fratelli Wines from aamchi Maharashtra. Speaking of libations, diners can also enjoy a range of 11 cocktails, each named after a rare diamond. Indulgence was never this delectable…Salamanca at Sevilla, The Claridges, New DelhiWith its own standalone structure perched atop the bar at the garden restaurant that is Sevilla, Salamanca is truly a magical sight to behold. Seating up to eight diners, the dining room is actually a mini cottage surrounded by slatted doors and wrought iron railings, making it the most romantic room on our list. No wonder then that it is considered the No. 1 spot in New Delhi to pop the question. This candlelit haven comes with an on-call private butler and a customised menu in which Spanish and Mediterranean classics like Seafood Paella and Lamb Tajine rub shoulders with more experimental dishes like the Black Squid Ink Fettuccine. And for a sweet finish, the Jack Daniel’s Chocolate Cake comes anointed with, what else but segments of Seville oranges.The PDR at N Bar & Grill, MumbaiThis eight-seater room is a picture of opulence, with its rich gold accented murals and recessed lighting that changes colour as your meal progresses. Inspired heavily by the neo-baroque movement with high-back chairs clad in gold velvet, inlaid ebony table and ornate screens that separate it from the restaurant’s main dining area, this is Indian fine dining at its showy best. Let your personal butler introduce you to the textural brilliance of Tawa Portobello Mushrooms and Galouti Kebabs on Kesari Kulchas, as you pick from mains such as Poha-crusted Black Snapper and Turmeric Rice, all off your very own iPad menu.Raul Dias is a Mumbai-based food and travel writer, and an ardent devotee of the peripatetic way of life