http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/Delhi-Metro-goes-the-extra-mile/article13982532.ece

The impact of the Aam Aadmi Party government’s odd-even policy on the first Monday of the new year reflected in the Delhi Metro, with the network recording an increase of nearly three lakh in ridership over last week.Unlike the first two days of the scheme, when the crowd was leaner owing to New Year and the weekend, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) added 70 extra train trips to manage the crowds on Monday. Although some passengers reported huge crowds at major inter-change stations during peak hours, commuters largely refrained from complaining about the situation. Monday’s ridership up to 8 p.m. was recorded at 22,85,887, while last Monday (December 28) it was 20.51 lakh. The span includes both peak hour timings of the metro — 8 a.m. to 11 a.m. and 5 p.m. to 8 p.m.However, if one looks at the average ridership of the Delhi Metro on Mondays, which is around 25-26 lakh, the latest figures do not reflect any marked increase in ridership.“The average ridership for Mondays is recorded from 6 a.m. to 11 p.m. and that of January 4 was recorded from 6 a.m. to 8 p.m. The metro has certainly seen more crowds before as well,” added the official.Even commuters agreed with the Metro official.“Most people on the green line go to Haryana, so I don’t know if the odd-even policy has had any effect on the crowd here. Even though it is rush hour now, there is no unusual crowd on the metro,” said 67-year-old S.P. Banyal, who was travelling on the green line towards Inderlok.Rakesh Kumar, a teacher who was travelling on the red line, said, “I usually drive around the city in a CNG car, but I will use the metro for the next two weeks so that I can help contribute to the government’s efforts to curb pollution. I have been travelling for more than three hours today [on Monday] and so far it has been a comfortable ride.”The DMRC claimed it was successful in handling the expected huge rush on all its lines. “The Metro was successful in handling the expected hug rush on all its lines, on the first working Monday of the year. All necessary measures were already planned in advance and were in place to manage any additional rush of passengers. All lines and stations were thoroughly monitored throughout the day,” said a metro official.During the 15-day odd-even trial, the DMRC has planned to run a total of 3,192 trips to handle the passenger rush.DMRC added 70 extra train trips to manage Monday’s ridership of 22,85,887 people