http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/DELHIITES-DITCH-CARS-FOR-THE-METRO/article13990221.ece

he odd-even car rationing plan of the Delhi government has managed to bring down traffic significantly and has also proved to be a catalyst for a slight shift towards public transport, reveals a study conducted by the School of Planning and Architecture (SPA).The ‘Traffic Survey and Travel Attributes Study’ conducted by the SPA’s Department of Transport Planning includes surveys done just before the implementation of the odd-even plan and after it was rolled out. The survey reveals that traffic has gone down substantially even in areas that were perennially choked with traffic, such as ITO. Another important finding was that the occupancy rates of cars have gone up.“The absolute number of traffic on roads and private vehicles has gone down in Delhi since the implementation of the odd-even plan. The traffic flow has decreased by eight to 16 per cent at different places,” said Sewa Ram, Associate Professor at the Department of Transport Planning, SPA. “We also noticed that the occupancy of cars has gone up from an average of 1.4 persons per car to 1.9 to 2. This shows that many motorists have shifted to car pooling,” Dr. Ram said.When it comes to alternate modes of transport, the Delhi Metro tops the list. The Metro is followed by auto-rickshaws, taxis and carpool, he added.Another interesting finding was that while commercial hubs such as Connaught Place and ITO saw a significant drop in the number of private cars, the share of private cars in traffic 0on the Gurgaon expressway had not dipped much and was still more than 50 per cent.The reason, Mr. Ram said, is the lack of last mile connectivity in Gurgaon as compared to Connaught Place or ITO. “The aggregate behaviour shows that at work centres like ITO, people prefer the Metro or auto-rickshaws,” he said.“Carpool is a better idea, but it works when the origin and working area of those pooling their cars is the same. Carpooling needs commitment unlike hiring a taxi, where you get the comfort of a car but don’t have to commit,” he added. “That is why the number of those pooling cars is only about 8 per cent. We have seen that carpooling is working well in areas like Dwarka, but in Gurgaon people prefer taxis,” he said.The survey also revealed that almost 25 per cent of all cars are now run on Compressed Natural Gas (CNG). Another finding suggested that though women-only cars have been exempted from the odd-even plan, the number of cars driven by women was found to be negligible.Dr. Sewa Ram also said that the survey was conducted at 11 different locations through random sampling, which comprised 6 per cent of peak hour traffic.He added that a post odd-even plan survey was also in the offing to identify why people who shifted to other modes of transport did so.