http://www.thehindu.com/sport/races/Deliberations-of-Asian-racing-conference-conclude/article14024986.ece

The deliberations of the Asian racing conference concluded on a high note at Trident Hotel here on Thursday with the final presentations. The next conference is scheduled to be held in South Korea in 2018.Earlier, perhaps the most contentious issue facing horse racing was tackled in the session on “Drug Free Racing: Are We Succeeding?”. In his introductory remarks, Dr. Kaoru Obata of the JRA made the point that competition must be drug free for it to have any credibility. He added that use of artificial means would be contrary to the International agreement on breeding, racing and wagering.Opening the debate was M. Louis Romanet, the Chairman of the International Federation of Horseracing Authorities. After laying out the road-map of the administrative framework for the testing of illegal drugs, he concluded that overall, racing administrators were winning the battle against dopers but that the industry continually had to remain vigilant as technology kept throwing up newer ways to cheat.Others who contributed were Dr. Brian Stewart of Racing Victoria, Dr. Jenny Hall of the BHA and Terry Henderson of OTI International. Concluding the speeches was one from Dr. Tozaki, also of the JRA, who explained that the therapeutic technique of gene therapy could also be used by unscrupulous elements for “gene doping”.There were a number of questions from the floor regarding the position taken by authorities should it transpire that positive drug tests might have been due to contamination. The conclusion was that ultimately trainers were responsible for presenting horses to race free of drugs, although due consideration might be given when deciding penalties if the conclusion had been reached that contamination was responsible.A special session of the International Movement of Horses Committee was held in association with the Asian Racing Federation and the National Horse Breeding Society of India.An action plan was formulated for tackling the road that lies ahead, a road directed towards the target of facilitating the movement of horses to and from India. Although much work needs to be done, it seems clear that the day is not too far when the country’s racecourses might see the participation of foreign horses, and vice versa.