http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Demand-for-satellite-railway-station-for-Mysuru-gains-traction/article14011873.ece

The Railway Ministry has been urged to expedite the development of a satellite terminal at Mysuru consequent to the completion of the track doubling work on the Mysuru-Bengaluru section and the imminent increase in train services.This is reckoned to be imperative if the benefits of the track doubling project was to materialise as the current Mysuru station, which handles about 48 pairs of trains per day, is choked.Mysuru MP Pratap Simha has drawn the attention of Railway Minister Suresh Prabhu on this issue in the run up to the railway budget. Mr. Simha has pointed out that the existing Mysuru station had limited capacity and the demand for additional train services cannot be met unless the station capacity was augmented.“There is an urgent need for another station in Mysuru to handle the projected additional traffic … Even, the South Western Railway has mooted the name of Kadakola (near Nanjangud), about 15.85 k.m. from Mysuru, to be developed as a terminal station,” Mr. Simha said. The development of additional infrastructure is a must in view of the projected economic growth of the region, he added.Railway sources said there was a lot of land belonging to the railways around Kadakola and if need be, additional land also could be acquired. The proposed terminal need not be the point of origin for trains, but it could emerge as a major maintenance hub for the region in view of the availability of water and land. “If the existing pit lines and stabling lines are shifted to Kadakola, Mysuru station could be decongested and an additional 10 pairs of trains could easily be handled,” the official said. This is significant as completion of track doubling has fuelled demand for more trains from the stakeholders. The Railways operate 24 pairs of trains on the Mysuru-Bengaluru section alone. “There are plans to operate trains every hour on the section,” the official added.The proposal for a second railway terminal was mooted almost 10 years ago. Initially, it was suggested that the terminal could either come up at Belagola or Ashokapuram. However, since these two stations are landlocked, the proposal had not gained traction. Kadakola has another advantage as CONCOR plans to develop an inland container depot to promote exports from Mysuru by creating a single window clearance facility.More trains to Bengaluru soughtIntroduction of new services on the Mysuru-Bengaluru section is high on the agenda in the wish list submitted by Mr. Simha to the Railway Minister. Apart from boosting tourism, the new services will also help in the overall development of Mysuru as a hotspot for IT/BT sector and education, the MP said.The slew of demands, include a new service departing Mysuru at noon and leaving Bengaluru at 4.30 p.m. to help decongest the Chamundi Express. More than 3,000 people, employed in the unorganised sector, use the train on each direction. Introduction of Diesel Multiple Units (DMU) and mainline Electrical Multiple Unit (EMU) between the two cities is another demand listed by Mr. Simha. He said, apart from doubling, the stretch was being electrified and with ease of mobility, there would be a large workforce commuting on a daily basis and hence introduction of DMU and EMU would help people of the region.