http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Demand-to-introduce-reservation-for-Dalits-in-private-sector/article14013291.ece

Students of various colleges in Hassan and representatives of several progressive groups on Thursday took out a rally under the banner of Bahujan Vidyarthi Sangha, demanding reservation in private sector. The protesters said that they would lay siege to the global investors’ meet to be held at Bengaluru in February, if their demand was not met.The students began their rally from the Hemavati Statue Circle and raised slogans against the State and Union governments. “Introduce reservation in private sector or else relinquish your posts,” they said. The protesters contended that the reservation being sought by them in private sector was only to ensure equality.M.S. Yogesh, district convener of the sangha, said that since adopting the policy of privatisation in 1992, the right of backward classes had been curtailed. “While the number of jobs in government sectors has been coming down drastically, opportunities in the private sector are increasing. However, there is no reservation in private sector. Investors, who avail themselves of the benefit of land, water and tax exemption from the governments do not introduce reservation for backward classes, which is nothing but doing injustice to backward classes,” he said.The Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and other backward classes had no representation in government jobs proportionate to their population. The upper castes, with only 15 per cent of population, had occupied a majority of posts in the government. The State government had not filled the vacant backlog posts, the protesters said.In a memorandum submitted at the Deputy Commissioner’s office here, the protesters stated that they would lay siege to global investors’ meet to be held at Bengaluru, if their demand was not fulfilled. “More than one lakh students from across the State would reach the venue of the global investors’ meet and lay siege. Mr. Yogesh said.Hooraja, leader of tribal communities, and Jayaram of the Dalit Sangharsh Samiti were among those present.Reservation for SCs, STs and backward classes in government jobs not proportionate to their population.M.S. Yogesh,Distrcit convener,Bahujan Vidyarthi Sangha