http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/tamil-nadu/Despite-tragedy-official-response-tardy/article14022287.ece

espite the tragic death of three of their friends, 60-odd students of the SVS Medical College of Yoga and Naturopathy and Research Institute in Bangaram in Villupuram district are staring at an uncertain future as the authorities concerned have not announced any measures to rehabilitate them academically.“After spending several lakh rupees over the past five years, we haven’t learnt a thing and are now sitting idle at home. The Government must immediately transfer us to other affiliated colleges so that we can continue our education meaningfully,” says Komala, a naturopathy and yoga science student who enrolled in 2010 through the single window counselling conducted by the Directorate of Medical Education.“All our school certificates are with the college. The authorities must restore them to us and also compensate us for the money we had spent all these years,” adds the girl, who was among six students who consumed rat poison last October in a vain bid to convince the Villupuram Collector to take action against the errant institution.Komala laments that the students got to see their teachers only a week before every examination season.“The institution never had full-time teachers. Just before the examination, the principal (since arrested) and a couple of teachers would rush through the portions. During the rest of the year, we would be forced to do all kinds of chores including cooking food for the college chairperson and her family and cleaning up the premises. We even fixed broken pipelines in the bathroom,” she alleges. Students who complained were harassed or have had their examination hall tickets withheld.Many students had dropped out of the college unable to withstand the monetary exploitation and academic deprivation. Students said that since 2011 they have been attending the weekly grievance day meeting at the Collector’s office to submit petitions against the college, an exercise which has proved to be an empty ritual. .“It is a matter of shame that a college such as this was functioning in Tamil Nadu, exploiting students from poor families,” says Prof. E. Balagurusamy, former member of the State Planning Commission and ex-Vice Chancellor of Anna University. “In the interest of the students, the Government and the university must immediately transfer all existing students to other colleges and ensure that they complete their studies and get a degree without paying additional fee,” he adds.Mr. Balagurusamy wonders how the college was still listed as an affiliated institution on the websites of the Tamil Nadu Dr MGR Medical University and the Tamil Nadu Health Department when the Vice Chancellor has claimed that the college was not granted affiliation for the current year. Demanding a probe by a sitting High Court judge or the CBI into how the college was allowed to function all these years, he sought action against local authorities who failed to respond to repeated complaints of the students.‘It is a matter of shame that a college such as this was functioning inTamil Nadu’