http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Designed-to-finish-second/article14004412.ece

Film: Monsoon MangoesDirection: Abi VargheseStarring: Fahadh Faasil, Vijay Raaz, Vinay FortAbi Varghese might be the director of Monsoon Mangoes , but we enter his film through another film – American Apaaratha , a short film made by D.P. Pallikkal, the protagonist played by Fahadh Faasil. Complete with titles, that black and white film tells us something about Pallickal’s film-making capabilities, or rather the lack of it. When we zoom out from that film and realise that it was playing in a television inside a psychiatrist’s room, where our man is in for a consultation, we get an inkling of the hopelessness of his situation.Pallikkal is an aspiring film-maker caught in a wrong job at a toilet seat manufacturing company. He has just finished the script of his first film Monsoon Mangoes and is on the lookout for actors, when he comes across Premkumar (Vijay Raaz), an yesteryear Hindi film actor now spending his days aimlessly drunk.A quirky crew is soon gathered and Pallikkal sets off to make his dream debut.Drawing on the experience of chronicling the Malayali diaspora in the U.S. in the popular television series Akkarakazhchakal , Abi Varghese places his debut film also in those comfortable surroundings. Our lead man Pallikkal is from a middle class family settled in U.S. His father, who works for the mail service, spends his time devising ways to sell his family brand ‘Chyavanaprasham’. The family has lost hope on their son, but his storeowner uncle goads him on.The film-maker reveals a certain purpose and a vision in the way he goes about with the proceedings. Most of the staple trappings of commercial cinema are done away with. What is novel here are the little digressions – Pallikkal’s short films, Premkumar’s flashback, a recurring television news programme which brings to the expats the latest happenings from their home State, the hotly trending song ‘Rosy’, an insufferable singer and his musical album. The humour is not an afterthought, but organically flows from the everyday, and not so every day, situations.Fahadh Faasil, after a series of disappointing performances, comes back in roaring form in a role tailor-made for him. Lukasz Pruchnik’s cinematography gives it a look and feel different from previous Malayalam films shot in that country.Monsoon Mangoes is an ode to those who are destined to finish second, or even last. It’s not for lack of trying, for that’s how the world is designed.S.R. Praveen