http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Devotees-throng-Tirumala-on-New-Year/article13976749.ece

he famous hill temple of Lord Venkateswara witnessed more than moderate crowds on Friday on the occasion of the New Year Day.Thousands of devotees who had already congregated at the open site available in front of the main temple complex the previous night went into raptures as the priests opened the main doors of the temple for the conduct of daily rituals minutes after the zero hour. The air was electrified with the mass chanting of ‘Govinda’ ‘Govinda’ by the assembled crowd. Even as the pre-dawn rituals were being carried out inside the sanctum, devotees who were gripped in spiritual ecstasy offered camphor-lit haratis to the main gopuram from their positioned places.The entire temple complex and its surroundings were impressively decked up for the mega event. While the inner portals of the main temple were tastefully stashed with varied assortment of flowers the external environs were colourfully illuminated to suit the grand occasion.Devotees were allowed darsan of the deity at 5.30 a.m. soon after the completion of the religious formalities. All the pre-dawn rituals like — Thiruppavai, Sathumurai, Thomala and Archana — were performed in ‘ekantam.’ With the day also happening Friday, the performance of the pre-dawn rituals was re-scheduled so as to carry out the weekly ‘Abhishekam’ of the Lord.Fall in pilgriminflux from TNThere was an apparent fall in the pilgrim influx from Tamil Nadu following the devastating rains last month. Bulk of the crowd is normally from the neighbouring State particularly the rain tormented Chennai city.The overplaying of the crowd factor by the authorities is also believed to have made the pilgrims put off their visit to a relatively to a lean season.Meanwhile, the TTD s top brass led by Executive Officer D. Sambasiva Rao and JEO K.S. Srinivasa Raju has made elaborate arrangements to meet the requirements of the visiting crowd. Contrary to its earlier decision the management also resolved to issue Divya darsan tokens to the pilgrims reaching the town on foot. More than 10,000 tickets of Rs.300/- special entry darsan were also made available to the devotees. Both the ghat roads were kept opened the previous night to allow the vehicles stream up to the town. However various privileged darsan formats like special entry to the physically challenged, senior citizens along with the various arjitha sevas remained suspended for the day.As a New Year gift to the devotees, the TTD also simplified the procedure involved in securing the Rs. 300/- darsan tickets online. Speaking to The Hindu , Dr. Rao said that the devout henceforth need not upload their photographs while booking the tickets.The decision was taken in the larger interest of the devotees as process involved in uploading of the photos (during the booking of the darsan tickets) nonetheless is a cumbersome process.However the devotees should invariably carry some kind of photo ID proof along with them during the darsan of the deity, he added. On the other hand, several VIP s including the Ministers, Judges, MPs, MLAs, bureaucrats and business men thronged the hill temple on the grand occasion.Devotees henceforth neednot upload their photos while booking the Rs. 300darsan tickets onlineD. Sambasiva RaoTTD Executive Officer