http://www.thehindu.com/sport/cricket/Dhoni-dodges-retirement-query/article13982776.ece

Ever since he announced his Test retirement a little over a year ago, Indian cricket is abuzz with murmurs of Mahendra Singh Dhoni set to call it quits after the 2016 World Twenty20, to be played in India for the first time.But being the secretive man himself, >Dhoni preferred to keep cards close to his chest. “I am somebody who has always believed in the present. So you won’t get answers regarding the future that is too far ahead.”Dhoni, sporting the India blazer, told reporters here before the team’s departure to Australia for a limited-over series.“As of now, the Australia series is important. After that, once we get into the T20 groove, we need to move in one direction as to what we should do as a team so we have the best chance of winning the World T20. Those are the primary concerns as of now. I have not really thought beyond that. There are a lot of things you need to think about and I don’t think this is the right time. All the energy and resources and thinking and all need to go in one direction and that is the Australia ODI series going into the T20 World Cup. It is a very important three to three and a half months.”India embarked on a tour Down Under for five ODIs to be followed by three Twenty20 Internationals, which will kick off the preparations for the gala event. While Dhoni played skirted the retirement questions, he didn’t do so when asked about the presence of new faces in the squad, especially in the all-rounders’ department.While Rishi Dhawan has finally been rewarded for his persistent efforts on the domestic scene, Hardik Pandya’s promising outings, especially in the Indian Premier League, has forced selectors to take a note for T20 games.Dhoni was looking forward to trying out both the pace-bowling all-rounders in Australia. “If you see most of the teams who are very consistent in performance at the international level, they have very good all-rounders. More often than not they have all-rounders who can bowl seam up which means fast bowling all-rounders, that is something we are lacking to an extent,” Dhoni said.“Also, you have to rely slightly more on them when you are touring outside. In the sub-continent you can still rely on a spinning all-rounder and go ahead and play the game but that is not the case outside the sub-continent, at times you need the seam bowling all-rounder. It gives them the opportunity, the people who have done well in domestic circuit and who have been consistent for the last few years, they are getting a chance to see how international cricket is slightly different to first-class cricket.”