http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/tamil-nadu/Differently-abled-stage-sit-in-protest/article13983135.ece

The Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of all types of Differently-abled and Caregivers (TARATDAC) staged district wide sit-in protest outside taluk offices demanding revocation of GO that underlines “destitution” as criteria for social security assistance.The change of orders with respect to eligibility criteria for pension scheme implemented under various social security schemes issued under the Department of Social Welfare and Nutritious Meal Programme definitively states “destitution’ as the underlying eligibility criteria for beneficiaries drawing monthly support.Speaking to The Hindu , General Secretary, TARADAC, Namburajan, said the State expects beneficiaries to be “orphans” in order to qualify for social security net. Destitution is nothing but being ‘orphaned’. This leaves majority of the disabled in the State in the lurch,” says Mr. Namburajan.As per the GO issued in August last, the monthly disability assistance of Rs.1,500 shall be issued only for the following three categories of disabilities; 75 per cent severe physical disability; 45 per cent mental retardation; and 40 per cent muscular dystrophy.This criterion excludes over 90 per cent of beneficiaries and would barely benefit less than 10 per cent of the disabled population in the State, says Mr.Namburajan. The GO widely affects over 3 lakh beneficiaries that include widows, senior citizens, and differently-abled. Among them, about 40,000 are disabled, say Mr. Namburajan.Karnataka and Puducherry follow disability-linked assistance. For instance Puducherry provides Rs.2,500 for 40 per cent disability; Rs.3,000 for 60 per cent disability and Rs.3,500 for 80 per cent and above. So is the case with Karnataka that disburses monthly assistance based on percentage of disability, says Mr. Namburajan.According to him, while States across the country follow this methodology, Tamil Nadu GO No.26 issued last August virtually excludes people. The protests were held in Pochampalli, Krishnagiri, Uthangarai, and Denkanikottai with over 445 disabled persons participating. Similarly, in Dharmapuri, protesters led by State treasurer for TARATDAC Chakravarthi K.R. led the protests.