http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Director-Venkat-Krishna%E2%80%99s-a-team-player/article14015932.ece

Director Venkat Krishna is making his debut with Yerupu. He worked as an assistant director to ‘Bommarillu’ Bhaskar and an associate director to Ramgopal Varma, then came out and started pitching his stories.He says, "The producer Anand Ranga and I are childhood friends and wanted to make a movie. Choosing to avoid the conventional route, I went for crowd funding. Though it wasn’t an easy process, we made significant amount of money by meeting film enthusiasts; we pitched the ideas and built a business plan. We wanted to bring investment in the form of resource too, so Anil and Bhanu who were publicity designers became co-producers too. The script and howe we planned production interested us all"Among the cast, lead actor Sudheer had done a few films earlier. Pratyusha was a common friend and the director had seen her plays at Lamakaan. She fit the bill on multiple levels; there is a natural beauty to her, she is not the quintessential glam doll. She has done some short films too. Why did he title his film Yerupu? He observes, “We wanted to symbolically represent danger. Because red is a vibrant colour, we tend to ignore that there is a danger associated with it. The film has dark humour, it’s a crime comedy; what is one person's comedy, is another person's tragedy. I am not trying to intellectualise the movie, using colours to promote the film. There is no bloodshed in the film, red is connected to danger.”The plot centres around two people who try to do something unique with their life and get into a situation that snowballs out of control. Since there is an element of suspense, the director wouldn't like to elaborate on it. The USP is the climax where the suspense is revealed. It has been shot in Delhi, Hyderabad and Ladakh.Venkat Krishna reveals, “There is no slapstick comedy, I have not objectified women, it is a situational comedy. It is a story of two guys whose definition of ethical living is to be involved in all unethical and illegal activities, so they get themselves into a complex situation. How they wriggle out of it forms the rest of the story.”About the crew, he says, “We have unbelievable talent working with us. In your early twenties, you can learn a great deal from the sets and the director. It did help me too otherwise I wouldn't have the technicians I am working with right now. Direction is a team effort, he can never take the entire credit or the blame. He should be criticised because it his vision, but he is only communicating an idea, the technicians are the ones who translate it.”