http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Director-Manu-takes-a-%E2%80%98right%E2%80%99-turn/article14006925.ece

Template movies may not have vanished completely but story-driven subjects are working at the box office. Manu who had worked as an associate director for Drishyam and was co-director for Manam and also with Malayalam director Jeetu Joseph is wrapping up his debut project Right Right with Sumant Ashwin. This film is a remake of an acclaimed Malayalam movie . Manu hails from Vizianagaram but had a complete Malayali upbringing, thanks to his Keralite father. His mother though, is a Telugu-speaking person.About his directorial ventures Manu says, “I indeed feel lucky to have got an opportunity to direct so early. Right now the industry is focusing on Malayalam movies. But that doesn’t mean if you get a good subject and narrate it to a hero here, he will accept it. Recently I narrated a script and a hero said, ‘such stuff works only in Kerala’. If Drishyam’s script were to be presented to a star here first, he would definitely not do it,” he says.Producer M.S Raju heard Manu’s story three years ago, but had put it off for sometime. After Drishyam, Manu got a story approved by a young hero who sought a month’s time during which M.S Raju wanted Manu to direct Right Right. He observes, “I thought instead of waiting for someone I should utilise the opportunity given to me by a producer. Moreover he is a king-maker and he trusted me. He told me to direct this film first and that is how this Malayalam remake happened. Before I stepped into the industry I had an ambition to direct films for two people, Ramanaidu and MS Raju. I’m glad that at least one is materialising.” In the story, Sumant Ashwin’s father is an RTC conductor and once he dies, the son gets the job. It deals with the friendship between the driver (Prabhakar alias Kalakeya from Bahubali) and the conductor. The bus begins its journey from S. Kota (Singavarapu Kota) and ends at Gaviti (an imaginary name) in Araku and has been shot at a time when the valley is in full bloom. He says it is not a typical Telugu film, it has a love angle as well. The bus is a character but the story revolves around a village. There are about 50 characters — most of them passengers in the bus. Poojha Zaveri is the heroine, Pavani Gangireddy reprises Ann Augustine’s role, the humour has been upgraded for Telugu audience. Right Right is set for a summer release.