http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/music/Display-of-musical-ingenuity/article13999394.ece

The annual Sri Sathya Sai Music Festival held at Chembai Memorial Government Music College, featured outstanding performances by O.S. Thyagarajan (OST) and Mathangi Sathyamurthy.The recital took off to a flying start with the popular Thodi raga varnam ‘Aeranapai’. OST’s penchant for Tyagaraja kritis was revealed in the presentation of the Saint’s kritis: ‘Evarani’ (Devamritavarshini), ‘Aelani’ (Ataana) and ‘Sarasasaamadaana’ (Kapinarayani). His alapana of Poorvikalyani covering all the jeeva swaras was full of traditional sancharas; delectable passages in the ‘tharasthayi’ created an impact. Lucid niraval and kalpanaswaras in the kriti ‘Gnanamosagaraadha’, a composition of Tyagaraja, projected the raga bhava brilliantly.OST’s spellbinding description of Kharaharapriya, dwelling at each and every swara of the raga, unfolded its unique flavour; the innovative embellishments opening up new vistas of manodharma. His sancharas in the upper octave touching the panchamam were a treat. After rendering the evergreen Tyagaraja kriti ‘Pakkala Nilabati’ with intense bhava, he presented stylish swaraprastharas. He concluded the concert with pleasing portrayals of the famous javali ‘Marubaari Thaala’ (Khamas- Dharmapuri Subbaraya Iyer), followed by ‘Kaana Vendamo’ (Sriranjani-Papanasam Sivan).T.H. Subramanyam’s violin accompaniment was superb. His raga expansions and swara sallies were drenched in melody. Cherthala Dinesh showcased his maturity and skill in his subtle mridangam support. Payyanur Govindaprasad’s expertise in handling the morsing was evident in his sonorous performance. The duo’s tani in Misra chaapu tala was excellent. Mathangi demonstrated her erudition and aesthetics in her vocal recital on the second day. After the opening Sri raga varnam ‘Saami Ninne’, she rendered ‘Varavallabha’ (Hamsadhwani-GNB), appending it with a variety of swarakalpanas.The rare kriti ‘Petridalaam Maname’ (Sri Ranjani- Thanjavur Sankara Iyer) preceded a graceful delineation of Lathangi.The elaborate niraval in the Patnam Subramanya Iyer kriti ‘Mariveredikkevaru’ was punctuated with swift durita kaalaprayogas and sprightly swara korvais. The lyrical beauty of the Reethigowla raga kriti ‘Mama Hridaye’ of Mysore Vasudevachar was rendered beautifully.The main raga Kamboji received a comprehensive treatment. The raga, which had vibrant sangathis and akaaras, revealed Mathangi’s manodharma. Her portrayal of Dikshitar’s ‘Maragathavallim’ was sung with deep-felt bhava. Although there is not much scope for a niraval in this kriti, the vocalist presented a beautiful niraval at ‘Krura Daityadhi’ in the charanam. The elongated swara patterns brimmed with vigour.A Malayalam song ‘Kandukondangirikkum’ from Poonthanam’s Njanappana oozed aesthetics.R. Swaminathan (violin) provided apt accompaniment. Mahesh Kumar (mridangam) and Payyanur Govindaprasad (morsing) sparkled in their spirited percussion support. Their tani in Adi tala received a big round of applause.The festival was organised by Sri Sathya Sai Seva Organisation, Palakkad.