http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Mangalore/District-office-complex-project-will-not-be-dropped-says-Rai/article14022605.ece

Minister for Forests, Environment and Ecology B. Ramanath Rai said here on Tuesday that the State government will not drop the district office complex project proposed at Padil despite the opposition to it.Speaking at the Republic Day celebration at Nehru Maidan, Mr. Rai said that the five-storey complex will be built at an estimated cost of Rs. 41 crore. The Minister said that the process of selecting the contractor through tenders had been completed and the work would commence as planned. Some environmentalists had approached the tribunal objecting to the diversion of 5.89 acres of land belonging to the Karnataka State Forest Industries Corporation at Padil for constructing the district office complex.Though the government had transferred the ownership of the land to the Revenue Department, the petitioners said that the land was rich with 478 trees and has been a deemed forest. The deemed forest houses several species of animals and birds, they had contended. On the petition filed by Suma R. Nayak, the tribunal had passed an interim order restraining the district administration from axing the trees. According to the Additional Deputy Commissioner the final hearing of the case has been scheduled for January 27.Earlier, in this speech, Mr. Rai said the district has done well in implementing the Anna Bhagya scheme of providing rice at free of cost for below poverty line families.About 2 lakh beneficiaries are being covered under the scheme in the district. The State government was going to bear Rs. 36 crore of the cost. As many as 1.78 lakh children studying in government and aided schools in the district were getting milk for three days in a week under the Ksheera Bhagya scheme.Mr. Rai said that the tenders had been floated for the construction of a new international-level swimming pool in Yemmekere at a cost of Rs. 5 crore.He said process of construction of Ambedkar Bhavan in Urwa Store at a cost of Rs. 12 crore will start after getting administrative approval from Government.