http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Discovering-Delhi-all-over-again/article14010180.ece

The blessed residents of Delhi know not that they live in a city that from time immemorial was built and rebuilt by many invaders; an eternal city with an unenviable number of monuments that are spread across every corner of this metropolis. Many of the ruined monuments have been restored attracting a large number of tourists. The city has been the capital for several centuries minus a few breaks. It has a vast repertoire of absorbing tales and myths unknown to most.‘Ronnie’ Smith’s “Delhi: Unknown Tale of a City” will delight those who take pride in the city’s heritage and have remained largely ignorant of its fund of anecdotes and folklores as the reader is transported to the bygone era of romance, valour and violence as they peruse the stories behind the tombs, domes, towers, pillars and decrepit buildings of this city and brought face to face with the lives and the life style of people of that era.The Delhi of R.V. Smith’s book brings alive Shahjahanbad, the city around which it has been built. The Raj built city and its rapid growth in later years has transformed Delhi from a leafy, ‘urban village’ into a chaotic metropolis of killer vehicles and reckless drivers. Known for its open spaces the city today has the dubious distinction of being the world’s most polluted capital with its river Yamuna resembling a smelling sewage. But there was a time when the river was free of any pollution and in 1883-84, the Delhi Gazetteer recorded 33 fairs on the Yamuna bank though, the author informs us, originally there used to be 104 fairs and festivals, including bathing rituals and honouring local deities.Some of the stories in the book have a touch of mystery and suspense. At a Halloween party in Chanakyapuri the author attended in the company of Peter Hazelhurst, the then popular correspondent of the Times (London), a diplomat recalled a story heard from Peter’s predecessor in Delhi, Neville Maxwell. It was about a ‘morose’ British doctor who reluctantly went to examine a widowed Thakur at Mehrauli. Sure, Thakur Beni Singh looked rundown. The chess-loving Thakur told the doctor that he was not unwell but has been looking forward to meeting his ‘Begum’ on moonlit nights when the Queen in his chessboard came to life as his ‘Begum’. At the time the doctor visited him, the Thakur was expecting his ‘Begum’ to visit him one last time and take him away. She sure did.The author has perhaps floated some ‘original’ myths which are no less gripping. After recounting the early history of Purana Quila and Ilium the author draws a parallel in the stories relating to Purana Quila and the war between the Trojans and the Greeks over a woman—Draupadi and Helen of Troy.Mirza Ghalib, claimed by Delhi as its own, has been universally hailed as an Urdu poet par excellence. But a stroll down Gali Mir Qasim Jan in old Delhi would lead to encounters with many who disagree with that view. The book quotes one such person saying that the ‘present-day English educated society has started making too much of him (Ghalib) when Delhi had produced better poets and role models.’ Everybody has heard about the First War of Independence in 1857 but not many would have known that it was also the time when Delhi had its own Joan of Arc, a big built woman (probably a Pathan), with hardly any trace of beauty, who rode on horseback and struck terror in the hearts of the British soldiers.’ Alas, the identity of this Joan of Arc of Delhi has remained unknown to the day.At a time when a 100-rupee note buys less than what a 10-rupee note did even a few decades ago and when 25 and 50 paise coins have been withdrawn from circulation will anyone believe that there was once a coin called Damri which children would collect to buy ‘cosmetics’ pins and needles and would pay for shoe repair? It was one-fourth of a paisa in some places and one-eighth in some other places. The book, a compilation of articles by Smith written mainly for The Statesman and The Hindu reflects the author’s keen sense of history, pride in heritage, an uncanny knack for locating the right ‘source’, sharp memory and above all the art of telling a story interestingly.