http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Discussion-on-development-marks-Patil-Puttappa%E2%80%99s-birthday/article14000518.ece

A discussion on issues related to the development of north Karnataka marked the 97th birthday celebrations of veteran journalist Patil Puttappa.The former bureaucrat S.M. Jamadar, the former Lokayukta N. Santosh Hegde, social activist S.R. Hiremath, and economist N.J. Chachadi, among others, participated in the programme. They analysed the reasons for the backwardness of the region and a few of them even countered the other’s contention with some valid points.Mr. Chachadi highlighted the D.M. Nanjundappa Committee report on regional imbalance. He termed it a meticulously drafted roadmap for the development of the region in the days to come. However, his argument was countered by Mr. Jamadar who termed the report as unscientific and even questioned its relevance.Mr. Jamadar said that the report dealt more with economics and lacked a sociological point of view.“The report found 59 taluks of north Karnataka and 55 taluks of south Karnataka as backward. Then where is the regional imbalance,” he asked.Mr. Jamadar said that gram panchayats, taluks and districts in south Karnataka could get enough funds for development as the areas under their jurisdiction were small and the administrative system further helped their growth.Mr. Puttappa concurred with Mr. Jamadar and said that the Nanjundappa committee report was an “eyewash” to suppress the voices for Statehood. The implementation of the committee report had only resulted in public money going down the drain, he said.While Mr. Puttappa did not support the call for Statehood, he said that an agitation that could take the shape of a movement was required to prevail upon the government to initiate steps for the development of the region.The programme also saw the speakers taking elected representatives of the region to task for their laidback approach. The speakers said that the 96 elected representatives from the region should make united and concerted efforts to get the things done even if it meant posing threat to the existence of the government.