http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Thiruvananthapuram/DMRC-finalising-flyover-plans/article14018840.ece

The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) is almost ready with the plans for the flyovers needed for the busy junctions along the proposed 21.82-km Technocity-Karamana elevated light metro corridor in the capital.The flyovers, which will ensure smooth flow of traffic along the NH 66, are to come up at Sreekaryam, Ulloor and Thampanoor junctions. Although a flyover has been proposed for Pattom Junction, the DMRC is for a subway there.“We are giving finishing touches to the drawings of these flyovers and subway,” a project official told The Hindu . In the case of Pattom junction, the vehicular traffic will move in the present pattern along the Pattom-Kowdiar road towards the medical college side. The subway will be on the NH corridor and it will be able to carry all classes of vehicles.DMRC Principal Adviser E. Sreedharan had visited Sreekaryam, Ulloor, and Pattom to have a final look at these junctions on Wednesday before the pact was signed between the DMRC and Kerala Rapid Transit Corporation Ltd. (KRTL) for interim consultancy.Rs.200-crore workIt is estimated that the flyover and subway will cost Rs.200 crore in addition to the land cost. The DMRC has insisted on the flyovers as the Light Metro has to move along the concrete deck which will come up on piles on the road median.The DMRC is also looking to bring down land acquisition in the Technocity-Karamana corridor to speed up the project.It is estimated that 8.92 hectares of government land and 3.04 hectares of private land will have to be acquired for the project.The move is to bring down the land requirement from 11.96 hectares as the proposed corridor moves along the congested junctions and arterial road. The DMRC is looking into the suggestion mooted by Mr. Sreedharan to house the 19 light metro stations in the mezzanine floor itself and reduce land acquisition considerably.Once approved, the land acquisition needed for 19 stations can be brought down drastically.Only 60 cents each will be needed in the places identified for stations, sources said. The commuters can reach the station through lifts and escalators from the carriageway.Subway likely at Pattom JunctionDMRC seeks to minimise land acquisitionIt is estimated that 8.92 ha of govt. land and 3.04 haof private land will have to acquired.