http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Do-not-allow-views-to-masquerade-as-news-media-advised/article14023491.ece

K. Annamalai, Superintendent of Police, said on Wednesday that the mass media such as newspapers and television news channels should report accurately about events without any bias.He was speaking as the chief guest at the inaugural function of workshop, “News which matters”, for district-level government officers and students of journalism, organised by the district administration, at the District Offices Complex Auditorium, here.Mr. Annamalai said that opinions or views should not be allowed to masquerade as new reports. Again, it was essential that advertisements did not gain prominence over reports or opinion pieces.The media should maintain a fine balance between the two, he said.Deputy Commissioner R. Vishal said that it was essential that the media should not resort to sensationalism.News reports appearing in the media should help give ideas to people and administrators to make society better, he said.Biased or prejudiced news would have damaging affect on society, he added.‘Convey it properly’Nagesh Hegde, columnist and workshop resource person, said that both the authorities and the media had failed to convey to the people that fly-ash generated at the thermal plant of Udupi Power Corporation Ltd. (UPCL) could be used effectively while constructing public roads.It was because this information was not conveyed properly, there were protests, he said. He said that the world was moving away from coal and crude oil for its energy needs. But Udupi district, an ecologically sensitive region, had a coal-based thermal plant and crude oil cavern.There was crisis in agriculture in Udupi district.But the Department of Agriculture could popularise cultivation of organic rice, which was now in high demand in urban areas. Similarly, sericulture too could be popularised in the district.Non-conventional energy sources such as solar power, wind power and tidal power should be promoted. Segregation of waste and disposing of garbage in a scientific way should be given priority, Mr. Hegde said.