http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Dogs%E2%80%99-day-out/article14006988.ece

Rooney and Jill are buddies. They live in different parts of the city but catch up almost every weekend at their new hangout. Sitting fancily with their bowls of cupcakes and cookies, they woof about the week that was, also perhaps, about their new chew toy and the standard rolling-on-the-tummy party trick they dislike. This is at Harley and Me, a café for pet dogs.The place, which was started in 2013 as a boarding facility for pets, launched a café in the last week of December 2015. Describing itself as “a human-friendly pet café”, it caters not just to furry four-legged creatures but also to their owners, who get to choose a variety of delights from the menu.Harley and Me is an open lawn with pretty lights and colourful seating. While most of the pets prefer to lounge on the lawn and dine there, there are a few who like to sit on chairs, along with their human friends. “There are a few pet-friendly cafés in India, but they have many restrictions. This is not just a café; dogs can swim, socialise, play games or get a spa treatment,” says K. Senthil Ram, who started Harley and Me, along with Arunodaya Reddy.It’s also a preferred venue for pooches to host their birthday parties. Since a party is not complete without cake, there are various shapes to choose from, and in flavours such as chicken, carrot, cheesy cream and peanut butter. The café functions only on weekends between 2 p.m. and 9 p.m., and on Sundays, there are special events to keep the pets entertained.“The food contains no sugar, salt or chocolate and is safe,” adds Senthil. While the menu is bright yellow and shaped like a bone, the menu for humans is shaped like a pup and lists burgers, sandwiches, French fries and beverages. The favourite dishes are honey chicken and the doggy cupcake. “My dog gulped down the entire dish of honey chicken in a couple of seconds, and we were wondering where the food disappeared.Some of the dogs are so inquisitive that they try to peep in and get into the kitchen,” says Senthil. The animals have a fun time and it’s just as entertaining for the fellow diners to watch their antics.Harley and Me is located at 32, VGP South Phase III, NRI Colony, Panaiyur.