http://www.thehindu.com/features/kids/Doors-of-peace/article14012001.ece

Day 24, Month of Sextilis, 715 BC (Month 6 of the Roman Calendar; corresponds to August), the city of Cures, near Rome“We await your decision, noble prince.”The said ‘noble prince’ was Numa Pompilius, a 40-year old man. He stood near the entrance to his garden, lost in thought. His eyes were kind, but worried, and he stroked his beard often. “I can only tell you what I’ve said before, I am no prince; only the last of my father’s four sons.”“But you are better qualified to rule Rome than all of them, even I,” smiled Proculus a little anxiously, it must be admitted. “Velesus, a candidate of the Sabine citizens agrees with me,” he pointed to a wiry, thin man who looked discontented. “And you must know, the people do like him.”“If the Sabines, who have now integrated successfully with the Romans, a great feat, considering how young Rome is, and how poorly they were treated, would not mind Velesus, then why must I be king?” Numa demanded.“Your piety, education, manners and peaceful nature have impressed the Roman Senate,” Marcius, one of Numa’s cousins, stepped forward. “You know that they have been forced to rule after the death of Rome’s founder Romulus and…”“Yes, yes, each senator must rule Rome for 12 hours, until the next ruler is found,” Numa interrupted. “Speaking of Romulus, remember his fate: after having gone to such length to establish this city, he was murdered.”Time to decide“Those are only rumours,” Proculus cut in, worried. “There is no proof of foul play; he was merely carried to heaven by our Gods. You have no need to worry, for…”“ …for Romulus’s fate will never be yours,” Pomponius, his father stepped up. “You are not arrogant and tyrannical like him and besides, it is seen as a good omen that you were born on the day of Rome’s birth: the 21st of April.”“I have lost my wife of 13 years,” Numa said heavily. “All I wish is to spend the rest of my life quietly, caring for my father; nothing but madness can induce me to leave a life I know, to ruling Rome.”The men who had gathered, stared at each other in consternation, for all their arguments had proved to be useless. The wind rustled through the trees, sounding like the ocean.“What will it take, then, for you to change your mind?” Proculus asked, finally. “The people wish for you; the Senate will take no one else, but you refuse.”“My mind boggles; I cannot make a decision,” Numa murmured, staring into the trees. “The Gods must send a sign. I ask for divine intervention. Aid me,” He walked forward, towards the entrance to the garden. “Help me, Great Ones, who guard this universe! What must I do?” His cry echoed around the trees, walls, and the listening men shivered with emotion. “What must I do?”Abruptly, the garden door slammed.Numa bowed his head. “It shall be as you please.” He turned to the assembled men, waiting avidly for his reply. “I accept the throne of Rome.”“But…how…why?” demanded Marcius. “Did you receive a sign? What was it? We saw nothing.”“A sign is only for those who are looking for it,” Numa smiled. “I found mine.”The party surrounded him at once, and eager to escort him to the city before he could change his mind, trooped outside the gardens. News spread; people turned out in great hordes; exclamations and good wishes poured out from everywhere for Cures was a Sabine city, and the people were overjoyed that one of them would be the next Roman Emperor.“Tell me, Numa,” Marcius whispered, as they were jostled by the crowds. “Tell me, was there a sign? What was it?”“The door slammed,” Numa said, cryptically. “And I knew what I had to do.”Day 1, Month of January, 700 BC, Rome“And so, my good people,” echoed Emperor Numa Pompilius’s voice across the vast gathering. “I now declare this Temple open, a place of worship, but most important, a place of peace. For I must tell you a little story…the story of how I came to ascend the great throne of Rome. In my hour of confusion, I implored the Gods for a sign. They, in their compassion, sent me one: the door of my garden closed.” In the crowd, Marcius grinned.“I knew then that I was being commanded by the great Janus, God of Beginnings, of new enterprises, but more importantly, peace. The temple of Janus has two doors — and at times of war, both shall stand open. But in times of peace, they shall be shut, signifying that all is well with us and our neighbours. This was the heavenly sign I received and I have built this great temple in thanks, and to spread the message we have had enough of war; now, let there be peace!”The people listened, awestruck, both by the speech and the temple.“Citizens of Rome, I now propose a change in our calendar,” Numa’s voice rose. “Henceforth, the Roman year shall have 12 months; not 10. It shall start not with March under the auspices of the God of War, but under the benevolence of Janus, God of Peace!”The applause that rang out echoed across the city…across time itself.Historical Note: Emperor Numa Pompilius (753 – 673 BC) was the second of the seven great Roman Emperors. He brought in several reforms, introduced several religious and political endeavours, and made January the first month of the year in honour of Janus. He promoted agriculture; fostered peace and fine arts. And the gates of Janus remained shut until the end of his days.