http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Dribbling-past-the-obstacles/article13992108.ece

To excel in a game like soccer one must have feet of clay to dribble past opponents, ability to run fast and loads of stamina to last the match. Girls soccer seems to be the buzzword as girls in Africa and Asia are fast taking up this sport which hitherto has been considered a male bastion. Another interesting aspect to this highly challenging sport is that it can also be used as a tool to develop leadership skills, teamwork. This teaches them the art of tackling not just opponents on the field but also obstacles which might come up in their lives.And this is exactly what Cindy Parlow Cone, a member of the 1999 World Cup winning team of the US, has been doing in the Capital over the past four days. She has been motivating girls from marginalised families from States like Manipur, Jharkhand, Karnataka to make a difference in their lives as well as within their communities. The girls were have been trained in soccer through technical sessions and attending workshops designed to equip them with leadership skills, understand women’s empowerment and make healthy choices.“Soccer is a beautiful game which makes girls gritty and powerful. It enhances their skills; make them passionate about the sport. It is beneficial to everyone whether rich or poor, male or female. It is non-discriminatory and understands a universal language. One can easily play soccer with opponents who speak a foreign language,” says Cindy, who adds that improving football skills of Indian girls was a thoroughly enjoyable exercise.Though Cindy has a favourable impression of Indian girls, she rooted for the Elite American U-16 team when it played against the Delhi State Women’s Team at Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium. The American girls emerged winner in the game played in a congenial atmosphere. “I take happy memories home,” says the two-time Olympic gold medallist.She has come to the city as the coach of Goals for Girls, an initiative connecting girls from different countries and backgrounds with their peers across the world to address social and health issues. All this is done through cultural exchange, service and, of course, soccer. The initiative is also being led by Danielle Slaton, Cindy’s teammate from the U.S. women’s national soccer team.Describing her experience of working with girls who belong to economically backward families as a great learning experience, Cindy says the heartening thing was to see the determination in Indian girls to excel in a gruelling sport like football. “We are working on their overall personality so that they have the confidence and desire to achieve their goals. A sport can teach a lot but it has to be channelised in the right direction. We are using soccer to teach these girls how to be agents of change in their own lives and communities,” says Cindy.Drawing comparison between the two countriesCindy says American girls have an added advantage over Indian girls because they are groomed from an early age and the opportunities to develop their soccer skills are huge. “American children start playing the sport at the age of four or five. They are free to choose soccer, hockey, basketball and track and field disciplines. Obviously Indian girls are at a disadvantage as they do not have access to infrastructure where they can sweat it out and demonstrate that they are champions. To enable Indian girls to play this game in the international arena, we conduct workshops for them. We have trained them in Bangalore and now in Delhi,” says the ace American footballer.Is there a communication gap, one asks. “These 160 girls are clear headed and understand our objective. They have been interacting with our girls. My assessment is that they are bright, energetic and competitive. But to make them champions, we obviously need involvement of more NGOs who can work on the ground.”