http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/entertainment/Drum-roll-please/article14018454.ece

The beat was on. As the curtains went up at the Nehru Centre, the crowd cheered. Only a handful of people may have seen so many drum sets together. There were seven of them, and for close to three hours, what one heard was sheer magic.The occasion was Mumbai Drum Day, curated by drummer Gino Banks, on Thursday, January 21. Besides him, the line-up included Ranjit Barot, Adrian D’Souza, Jai Row Kavi, Darshan Doshi, Vinayak Pol, Andrew Kanga and nine-year-old prodigy Anurag Saha. Gary Husband, who plays with John McLaughlin’s band The Fourth Dimension, alternated between keyboards and drums.There have been drum festivals in other parts of the world, the more popular ones being Modern Drummer in the US, Meinl in Europe, and Victoria in Canada. While India has had events featuring assorted percussion instruments such as the Damru fest in Pune and numerous one-off shows, this was the first of its kind, focusing only on western drum sets.The hall was packed and most hung on to the end. Asked how he conceptualised the show, Banks said: “The idea has been on my mind for a long time. I have always been a fan of the Modern Drummer Festival and loved how drummers were showcased. I felt it would be great to do something like that in India.” Regarding the choice of artistes, Banks wanted drummers representing different genres, and also a mix of well-known names and upcoming ones. He felt Kanga was among the names to reckon with, but the surprise act was young Anurag Saha. His antics were worth watching: at one point he played with a cloth covering his face; then he placed one drumstick on his head and played with the other; after that, he stood on the chair and played bending down. Another highlight was Pulse Conversation, a drum set trio featuring Banks, Row Kavi and Pol.Among the other acts, Doshi was accompanied by keyboardist Jarvis Menezes, bassist Rushad Mistry and flautist Ashwin Srinivasan. In a jazz and Latin set, D’Souza was joined by guitarist Sanjay Divecha and keyboardist Karan Joseph. Finally, young bassist Mohini Dey played with Barot and Gary Husband, coming up with some brilliant parts. Clearly, it was one of the most memorable shows of recent times. And its success once again points to the high quality of western kit drummers that India possesses.Let’s name some names, besides those at the Drum Day event.From the older generation, Steve Sequira, Bashir Sheikh, Ramesh Shottam, Nondon Bagchi and Jamil Sheikh come to mind. And Trilok Gurtu adapted his kit and achieved fame on the international jazz circuit. The 1990s made way for the popular Sivamani, Benny Soans, Indus Creed’s Bobby Duggal and Mark Menezes, Parikrama’s Dilip Ramachandran and Pentagram’s Shiraz Bhattacharya. The last 15 years have had Indian Ocean’s Amit Kilam, and multi-group drummers like Kurt Peters, Lindsay D’Mello and Sidd Coutto.Today, many young drummers throng the rock, metal and jazz scene. There are far too many to mention, but if one has to name one female drummer, it’s Yasmin Claire Kazi of Myndsnare. Obviously, there’s plenty of talent floating around. Yet many drummers stick to specific genres. Today, there are hundreds of opportunities to use the western drum kit in fusion, Bollywood music and percussion ensembles featuring Indian instruments. The more one expands one’s horizons, and adapts to new styles, the better.Narendra Kusnur is a freelance music writer