http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/DSGMC-demands-CBI-probe/article14014607.ece

Reacting to reports of files on the 1984 anti-Sikh riots going missing, agitated leaders of the city’s Sikh community on Friday demanded a Central Bureau of Investigation probe into the matter.The members of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) alleged that files pertaining to the constitution of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe the case went missing only after senior Aam Aadmi Party leader Sanjay Singh met Congress leader Jagdish Tytler, who is an accused in the case.The Sikh leaders invoked a statement made by senior lawyer and AAP supporter H.S. Phoolka, where he claimed that the important files had gone missing when Arvind Kejriwal was in power.“It is one year since the SIT was formed, but nothing has emerged till now. Instead of punishing the culprits, the Delhi government is embroiled in missing and relocating related files. Even Mr. Phoolka has said that while the AAP government constituted an SIT despite the Centre already appointing one, no work of the State SIT can be seen as yet,” said DSGMC president Manjit Singh G.K.The committee has demanded a thorough CBI probe into the whole episode. “There must be an inquiry as to how an important file went missing and the Delhi government claims to have found it after a few days. There is something really suspicious about the functioning of the State government, which needs to be probed,” added Mr. Singh, who is also the president of BJP-ally Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) in Delhi.DSGMC general-secretary Manjinder Singh Sirsa alleged that the file went missing after a meeting between Mr. Singh and Mr. Tytler. “The timing of their meeting raises serious doubts about the AAP’s claims of supporting the Sikh cause. All claims by Mr. Kejriwal in his address at the AAP Maghi conference in Muktsar, Punjab, were false and malicious, and he needs to explain his doublespeak, as to why he is making such comments just for political benefits,” said Mr. Sirsa.Other leaders alleged that Mr. Kejriwal was raking the issue to gain “political mileage” as elections in Punjab are approaching. Speaking on the compensation disbursed by the Delhi government, DSGMC senior vice-president Mohinder Paul Singh Chadha said: “It has been revealed that whatever the victims have received was the money that came from the Central government. The Delhi government needs to explain here. Has it given any job or houses or any other benefit to the genocide victims and their families?”