http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/news/Duo-who-extorted-bank-official-arrested/article13991092.ece

The Anti-Extortion Cell of the Mumbai Police Crime Branch arrested a couple for allegedly extorting a Mumbai-based bank official of Rs 47 lakh over 10 months.The accused have been identified as Vicky Garg (35) and Shilpa Jadhav (25). The police said they were living together in Vasai and claiming to be married. Shilpa used to identify herself as Shilpa Garg.Investigating officers said the complainant works as an auditor in a nationalised bank. In February last year, while he was travelling to work, Shilpa approached him and asked to borrow his cellphone to make an urgent call, to which he obliged. Shilpa then called him up and struck up a friendship with him, after which they kept in touch and also met each other a couple of times.In the same month, Vicky approached the complainant, assaulted him and threatened to ‘expose his illicit relationship’ with Shilpa and defame him. Vicky then started extorting money from him.“The accused kept extorting money from the complainant time and again,” said DCP (detection) Dhananjay Kulkarni.“In April, they told him that the woman had become pregnant and threatened to defame him if he did not pay. In May, they told him they had filed a complaint against him and that the police were looking for him. The accused went on to say that they knew someone who would settle the matter, but that it would cost him more money. Using various such stories, they extorted the complainant of Rs 47 lakh. This included two second-hand cars, jewellery and electronics.”The police said the complainant genuinely believed that he was wanted by the police, and fled to Rajasthan in December. His family members convinced him to come home and seek the police’s help, after which he approached the Crime Branch and registered a complaint earlier this month.“We laid a trap for the accused on Friday near the Metro junction, where the complainant called them to take their next installment of money,” said Mr Kulkarni.“Both the accused showed up and as soon as they accepted the money, we moved in and took them into custody. They have been arrested and have been remanded to police custody till January 11. We are now investigating whether they have similarly exploited others,” Mr Kulkarni added.The accused threatened to expose the victim’s ‘illicit’ relationship