http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Visakhapatnam/e-Library-facility-at-AU-Engineering-College/article13999116.ece

e-Library facility giving online access to lakhs of publications was inaugurated in the Andhra University Engineering College Library here on Wednesday.Speaking after the inaugurating it, Andhra University Vice-Chancellor G.S.N. Raju said this was a part of the continuing efforts of the university to make available the best literature in the world on every subject to students. The university would be spending Rs 1 lakh per annum to provide access to the vast database of books, he added. Steps are being taken to make the books available to all students. The World e-Book Library organised through the DELNET Consortium would provide students of engineering, science and social sciences. Engineering students would be able to access 40 lakh titles and they can download and read the books, the VC explained.The e-Book would provide access to 9,000,000 research, rare and classic full-text eBooks and eDocuments. They are fully downloadable, printable and shareable. It is daily used by millions of professional scholars as a primary source of classic and rare e-Books to substantiate their academic papers and prove their "originality".The database offers the most influential books in humanities, science and technology originally printed from the 10th till the 19th centuries. It is the only e-Book database with digitally enhanced editions of scanned books from the top universities in USA and Canada. More than 1000 years worth of books conveniently searchable across 200 specialty collections are available. e-Books and e-Documents available in over 200 languages. Key academic subjects covered include: Sociology, Psychology, Philosophy, Economics, Management, Government, History, Agriculture, Medicine, Education, Fine Arts, Languages, Law, Literature, Maths, Chemistry, Physics, Biology, Anthropology, and Technology. Principal of AU College of Engineering Ch.V.Ramachandra Murthy, professors G.M.J. Raju and P.S. Avadhani were present.