http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/e-Tappal-to-make-application-processing-easy/article13980489.ece

he running from pillar to post to know the status of the applications filed at the Transport Department and their cumbersome processing is going to be a thing of past.May it be Right to Information queries, applications seeking No Objection Certificate (NoC) for vehicle registration or something else, the Regional Transport Authority, Vijayawada has come up with an easy tool– Online Tappal Management System– for the convenience of people.The authorities here have introduced the system at RTA, Vijayawada, Gudivada and Nandigama on a pilot project. In most cases, locating applications is a time consuming process and at times, they even gets misplaced in different sections. “Easy processing is the objective. The online tappal management system has been introduced to streamline the functioning of different sections, thereby ensuring a better and effective service to the applicants,” says Deputy Transport Commissioner V. Sunder.RTI queries, No Objection Certificate applications, court orders, dealers’ grievances, head office orders have been brought under the new system. Soon after a document is obtained, the RTA employees will assign an exclusive file number to the applications. The respective section officer, administration officer, RTO and senior authorities would get an alert in the inboxes of their office domain and an SMS in their cell phones too. At the end of the day, a report on number of applications received, processed and cleared can be obtained, Mr. Sunder explains.The system stipulates the timeframe for processing applications as the respective supervisor or officer of the section concerned will get a reminder as an SMS alert two days before the deadline. If the employee fails to clear the application, he or she will be held responsible and action will be taken accordingly, he says.Everyday, the RTA , Vijayawada receives around 10 different applications under the RTI and NOC, court directives, head offices and since last fortnight, the department here has received over 70 applications and has managed to clear 35 applications successfully.“The software was developed with the help of Y. Venkat Sudhakar, a private software engineer in 10 days and it is a cloud-based application. Higher authorities have approved the project and we are observing its functioning,” says Mr. Sunder, who conceived the idea and blueprint of the project.Easy processing is the objective. The online tappal management system has been introduced to streamline the functioning of different sections, thereby ensuring an effective service to vehicle owners.- V. Sunder,Deputy Transport Commissioner, RTA, Vijayawada