http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/Each-unto-his-own/article14001442.ece

This happens ever so often. Someone sidles up to you and suggests that the biggest box-office grosser in recent times is overrated. A contrarian view amongst a crowd is like a discordant voice in a chorus. It gets noticed. I sometimes get an inkling it’s to provoke you into a debate knowing you pen your impressions about cinema. The easy way is to nod in assent or get sucked into an endless, futile argument. This comes mostly from citizens, not cineastes with a condescending attitude towards Kannada cinema.You ask them about the last Kannada film they watched and the answer will proudly be a Vishnuvardhan or Raj Kumar starrer. They’re the kind who’ll reluctantly venture to buy a ticket in a theatre only after friends, neighbours and colleagues have raved about a film. It happened with ‘Mungaru Male’ and it’s happening with ‘RangiTaranga’. The flipside is that it’s only when a film can entice such people will it be deemed a hit. ‘RangiTaranga’ has done that. The sceptics are a minority. If they’d been subjected to ‘Airavatha’ or ‘Uppi2’ they’d realise how good a film ‘RangiTaranga’ is. I rate a film depending on the recent films I’ve watched in that language. ‘RangiTaranga’ is way up there. That the film managed to strike a chord is an entirely different story. It paved the way for Kannada cinema abroad and now Anup Bhandari doles out free advice to Kannada producers who yearn for viewership abroad.These thoughts flitted through my mind while watching ‘Charlie’ a Malayalam film starring Dulquer and Parvathy. Cinema is taken seriously in Kerala and some reviews suggested the film was flippant. Now what are these guys comparing ‘Charlie’ with, I wondered while exiting with a satisfied smile. If you go all the way to God’s own country to clean your colon, you can cleanse the cinematic impurities clogging your mind by watching a good Malayalam film. ‘Charlie’ starts off predictably. A free-spirited girl (she lives in Bangalore) escaping from a betrothal arranged as barter to facilitate her brother, is nothing new. Bangalore is to modern Malayalam cinema what Dubai was in the nineties. If characters then went in search of fortune, today’s Malayalees seek fun in Bangalore. An auto driver in the first scene talks about our city like some exotic land where forbidden fantasies can be fulfilled. Well, Tessa the heroine hitchhikes her way to a seaside town and rents a room with a view. It’s filled with artistic knickknacks and an unfinished graphic novel left by the previous occupant. A fascinated Tessa bumps into or seeks the characters sketched, listens to tales about the artist’s escapades and seeks him. Charlie is the typical Bohemian we sometimes dream of, dreading drudgery. He’s too simplistic in the cinematic sense, unshackled by societal norms, sans belongings and beholden only to his conscience. He believes in spreading a smile but his unnecessarily loud laugh seems to camouflage a deep, unexplained emotional scar. If you want to slot ‘Charlie’ in a genre, it’s ‘catch me if you can’. The protagonists don’t meet till the end but the connection is mystical. They’re aware of each other but the pleasure is in the pain that longing induces.‘Charlie’ reminded me of ‘Amelie’, in spirit and some of its content like the pursuance of the seemingly unattainable. The film is filled with small, delightful episodes brilliantly written with enticing characters. Every small cameo is invested with enthusiasm and enacted beautifully. I wish I knew their names. Dulquer just sails through effortlessly as if he was caught by a candid camera. You can say this about most Malayalam actors. Nedumudi Venu, as usual doesn’t disappoint. There’s this look of trepidation and fascination in Parvathy’s eyes that’s amazing. Her only fear appears to be the impending tryst turning into a disappointment. She gets her man here though unlike ‘Ennu Ninte Moideen’. If ‘Charlie’ is just okay by Malayalam standards, I marvel at their standards of expectation. The film is full of loose ends but isn’t that what life is all about?sshivu@yahoo.com