http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/Early-works-of-India%E2%80%99s-most-famous-cartoonist/article13999342.ece

Bengalureans would soon get to see some of the earliest cartoons by R.K Laxman that had appeared in Kannada magazine Koravanji, managed by one of the doyens of Kannada humour literature Ra.Shi or Dr. M. Sivaram.‘Start-up R.K. Laxman’, at the Indian Institute of Cartoon Gallery (IIC), has been organised in collaboration with the Koravanji-Aparanji Trust to commemorate the first death anniversary of the legendary cartoonist. The event will showcase 57 of his cartoons, including 16 originals from the 1940s that will be available for public viewing for the first time.He made these cartoons when he was a student of Maharaja’s College in Mysore. They are said to have created a launch pad for Laxman to pursue a career in Mumbai, V.G. Narendra of the IIC said.‘Koravanji’ was run by Ra.Shi from 1942 to 1967 at Malleswaram and reached several parts of Karnataka. Since 1983, his son S. Shivakumar has been running the sequel to ‘Koravanji’ called ‘Aparanji’. He recollects that when his father started the humour monthly ‘Koravanji’ in association with the well-known humorist Na. Kasturi to infuse much-needed humour into Kannada literature, cartoons, drawings and pictures became integral and that’s when R.K. Laxman was thought of.“Kasturi was a teacher in Maharaja’s College. He had suggested the name of R.K. Laxman to my father. Kasturi had keenly observed the teenager’s drawings in the college magazine,” recollects Shivakumar.Laxman had contributed to the cover of the first issue of Koravanji in March 1942. “My father and Kasturi often cherished their discussions with Laxman about how to infuse an element of humour in any given situation. They would often guide Laxman into thinking about the funnier side of things,” says Shivakumar.Laxman contributed to the magazine for four years.Origin of exhibitsIn the mid-1940s, writer Ra.Shi. had asked R.K. Laxman to picturise the Dasara activities at Mysore’s Jeevanna Rayanna Katte. RKL promptly sketched an assortment of people in their varied dressing and said ‘this is something so diverse and colourful’.The Koravanji Mascot, which appeared on the cover, was created by Laxman.Laxman contributed more than 100 illustrations to the magazine from 1942 to 1946. Amongst them, Ra.Shi had preserved 16 in his personal collection, which are part of the exhibition along with 51 scanned copies of his works.Most of his drawings then were on the social life of Karnataka. The exhibition, from January 23 to February 6, will be inaugurated by Usha Laxman, daughter-in-law of Mr. Laxman. Humorists Beluru Ramamurthy and Y.V. Gundurao are the special guests.