http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Thiruvananthapuram/East-Fort-chaos-claims-another-life/article14004435.ece

The traffic chaos at East Fort claimed one more life on Sunday, the fourth this year, with a bus running over a man, who remained unidentified more than 12 hours after the accident. The accident occurred between 10.15 a.m. and 10.30 a.m., near Pazhavangady Junction, when the man, aged around 55 and suspected to be a nomad, was attempting to cross the road towards the Putharikandam Grounds on the other side. He is said to have reached the median and then stepped back to avoid being hit by a car on the other side, but instead was hit by a bus, operating for the VSSC, with the rear tyres of the bus running over his legs.A Police Control Room Vehicle (CRV) that reached the spot called for an ambulance, which shifted the injured man to the Government Medical College Hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries around 12.30 p.m. The body has been shifted to the MCH morgue. The police have taken the bus driver into custody.ControversyHowever, the incident snowballed into a controversy with television channels alleging that the police personnel on the CRV had refused to take the injured to hospital and instead wasted precious time in waiting for an ambulance. State Police Chief T.P. Senkumar later called for an inquiry into the allegations.Police versionK. Sanjay Kumar Gurudin, Deputy Commissioner (Law and Order), who conducted the inquiry, said there was no delay. The CRV had first called for a ‘108’ ambulance, but were told that no ambulance was available. They then called for the police ambulance, which arrived four or five minutes after the CRV had reached the spot.Mr. Sanjay Kumar, in his report, said the accident occurred at 10.28 a.m., according to the wireless log at the Control Room. The CRV reached the spot in three minutes. The victim was admitted to the MCH at 10.40 a.m., as per the computerised OP ticket issuing system there, which meant it took 12 minutes after the accident for the victim to reach hospital. He said an injured person, particularly one with both legs crushed, could be shifted only by trained personnel. This was why the CRV personnel had opted to wait for the ambulance, he said.Police accused of not hospitalising victim on timeState Police Chief seeks inquiry into allegations