http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Easy-on-the-tummy-and-wallet/article13992076.ece

Socie-Tea – The Street Food CaféThe homely yet chic décor of this café makes it a perfect place for you to relax with your friends after a busy day. Their menu is extensive ranging from waffles and toasties to Indian snacks like pakodas and chat. The café even offers main course dishes such as noodles and fried rice to those looking for a meal. However, the stand-out in their menu is hands down the variety of teas available. From traditional masala chai to Morrocan mint tea and other special teas which relieve stress or burn fat, the tea list is sure to have something of appeal to everyone. The best part of this café is that it is light on your wallet, with most dishes priced below 100 rupees!Location: 83/4, 13th Main, Opposite Methodist Church, Off Double RoadCall: 41102018Glen’s BakehouseOn entering this cozy and sophisticated café, one might be fooled into thinking it is a bakery because of the mouth-watering pastries and desserts displayed. But a look at their full-fledged menu, which includes burgers, pastas and ‘build your own’ pizzas, will show you that it has much more to offer. Glen’s is ideal for a Sunday morning breakfast as it is one of the very few cafes which offer substantial breakfast options such as eggs, sausages, pancakes, French toast and many more. The highlight is their wide array of desserts, which can be enjoyed as a perfect end to your meal or on their own as a snack too. With many options to choose from below Rs. 300, this café does an excellent job in giving value for your money.Location: 297, 100 Feet RoadCall: 41228773Ants CaféAnts café is a simple, quiet cafe located just off the bustling 100 Feet Road. Their long list of coffees and teas, including cinnamon cappuccino, Irish caramel latte and cucumber iced tea, is bound to please any caffeine-lover. The café offers small bites and snacks such as cutlets, fries and bruschettas to pair with your coffee or tea at less than 200 rupees. Those having bigger appetites will also be satisfied with the pastas and other main course dishes available. What makes this café special is that it also has a crafts store combined! Don’t forget to browse through their collection after you eat.Location: 2286/B, 1st Cross, 14th A Main, HAL 2nd Stage, Off 100 Feet RoadCall: 41715639The Kitchen of JoyA unique Bengali café, The Kitchen of Joy serves authentic rolls, parathas and biryani. The list of snacks includes aloo buns, chilli cheese toast and Maggi with various toppings. If you are a Maggi fan, this is the café to go to! The menu offers a number of unique takes on Maggi, ranging from cheese Maggi to chicken tikka Maggi to mutton keema Maggi; all below 150 rupees. With beverages such as ginger chai, buttermilk and sweet lassi, this is the place to grab a quick bite for the desi in you. Although the space is limited, the quirky décor makes up for it!Location: 12th Main, HAL 2nd Stage, ESI to Domlur, Service Road, IndiranagarCall: 9900962765Berry’d AliveBerry’d Alive is a dessert café whose decadent and innovative desserts are a delightful way to end your day as they truly are a treat to your taste-buds. Some of their most popular desserts which you must try are the hazelnut crème pot, raspberry peach pavlova and the double decker brownie. For vegetarians, egg-less options like peanut butter crumble pudding, banoffee pie and chocolate wontons are also available. The impeccable presentation and the delicious texture combinations of these desserts is more than what you would expect for the prices charged, which are below 200 rupees. Besides desserts, Berry’d Alive serves cold coffee and milkshakes in flavours such as salted caramel, strawberry and blueberry. Go ahead and indulge your sweet-tooth without feeling a pinch in your wallet!Location: 1079, 12th Main, HAL 2nd Stage, Off 100 Feet Road, IndiranagarCall: 9611279977(The article is part of a series on affordable cafés across the city)