http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Food/Eat-shop-drop/article14012066.ece

Very few things can distract shopaholics when they are binge-buying — in this case, it is the whiff of kebabs from Punjab Grill. Delightful as it is, it can be quite a task battling the aroma while trying to get your hands on the last pair of nude peep-toes. This month-old restaurant in Phoenix MarketCity offers a variety of Punjabi food with a few twists. It’s way past lunch time, and the dine-out is almost full… a wise decision to keep it open throughout the day, considering people can often lose track of time while indulging in retail therapy.A steady flow of Ranbir Kapoor hits resonates from the speakers, as we find a table by the large windows overlooking the courtyard. Punjab Grill has outlets in other cities, where the menu also includes cocktails. Here, we content ourselves with the tamer mocktails. There are also desi favourites such as mango lassi, shikanji and mattha. We go for aam panna, which looks a beautiful emerald green, but unfortunately, tastes like synthetic raw mango essence. Also, its way too tangy, and even the extra sugar syrup doesn’t help. The starters, thankfully, are far from disappointing. The chicken kurkuri has a desi chicken-meets-spring roll vibe to it. It’s interesting, with a crispy deep-fried outer layer sprinkled with sev and a moist chicken-and-cheese filling inside.Ever wondered what biting into a cloud can feel like? Perhaps like a mouthful of dahi ke kebab. These palm-sized fried dumplings made of hung yogurt and cardamom are total rock stars. The biriyani at the neighbouring table looks tempting. That’s my cue to peer back into the menu.There’s misi roti, and that’s enough for me to forget about biriyani. Bright yellow like the sunshine outside, these rotis are made of gram flour, and although a little too short on salt, it goes particularly well with paneer lababdar that’s got soft chunks of paneer in a tangy creamy gravy. The other favourite is dhaniya mirchi da kukkad — chicken drumsticks in a dark, flavoursome curry, perked with slivers of ginger and a hint of mace. The garlic naan is done well... it’s soft and yet there’s a delicate crunch to each bite.The waiter hovering around gently leaves the menu on our table. We give in and open the page that lists desserts. How can anyone say no to phirni, falooda or kheer? We share a litchi ki tehri, a sweet, thick custard of reduced milk with juliennes of juicy, canned litchi. Now here’s something that can match up to shopping during a sale.Punjab Grill is located on the Ground Floor, Phoenix MarketCity, Velachery. A meal for two costs Rs. 1,400. Call 3008 3715.