http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/Eavesdropping-helps-police-crack-murder-case/article14008919.ece

Eavesdropping is considered bad manners, but sometimes it can be otherwise. On Tuesday, a policeman who overheard a conversation between two alleged murders helped the Gopalapuram police unearth and crack a murder case.An unidentified man was murdered by two persons three days ago and the body dumped at an unoccupied railway quarters near Chilkalguda area. Two persons who allegedly murdered the man, aged between 25 and 30 years, and robbed Rs. 10,000 from him, were discussing the murder near a liquor shop after which they were taken into custody by the police.On questioning, the duo spilled the beans and took the police to the spot. The body of the stranger was in a highly decomposed state. The duo, who are roadside dwellers and stay on pavements at Rathifile, told the police that they had befriended the stranger and took him to the railway quarters. After consuming liquor, they killed him and took Rs. 10,000 from him.Three held for cyber crimeThree persons who helped a gang of cyber crooks were arrested by the Cyber Crime sleuths of the city police on Tuesday.The accused persons, Sagar Kumar (29), Sanjay Patel (40) and Faraz Ahmed Khan (26) from Madhya Pradesh, helped an inter-State gang of cyber crooks led by Rohit Sharma of Madhya Pradesh. The gang had hacked into a businessman bank account from Begumpet last month and withdrew Rs. 8.8 lakh through four transactions.“The gang would send a mail with Trojan link to any bank account holder and after getting the login IDs and passwords, hack the accounts. They would transfer huge amount of money to different bank accounts,” Inspector, Cyber Crime, V.P. Tiwari said.The trio – Sagar Kumar, Sanjay Patel and Faraz Ahmed Khan – opened accounts in different banks and provided the ATM cards and online transaction IDs to Rohit. In turn, they were paid commission by him.Based on a complaint filed by the victim, the police zeroed in on the trio and arrested them from different towns in Madhya Pradesh.They also seized Rs. 2.70 lakh cash and freezed the bank accounts opened by them.