http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/ED-charges-Marans-with-money-laundering/article13988588.ece

The Enforcement Directorate on Friday filed a complaint against the former Telecom Minister, Dayanidhi Maran, his brother Kalanithi Maran, his wife Kaveri Kalanithi and others in a money laundering case.The complaint is a spin-off of the corruption case lodged by the CBI in the Aircel-Maxis deal. The complaint alleged that Rs. 742.58 crore was paid for Mr. Dayanidhi Maran by two Mauritius-based companies through Sun Direct TV Pvt. Ltd and South Asia FM Ltd.Court to hear complaint on January 18The court of Special Judge O.P. Saini here has fixed January 18 as the date for consideration and taking cognisance of the complaint filed by the Enforcement Directorate against former Telecom Minister Dayanidhi Maran, his brother Kalanidhi Maran, his wife Kaveri Kalanidhi and others in a money laundering case. The complaint is a spin-off of the corruption case lodged by the CBI in the Aircel-Maxis deal.The complaint alleged that Rs. 742.58 crore was paid for Mr. Dayanidhi Maran by two Mauritius-based companies through Sun Direct TV Pvt. Ltd (SDTPL) and South Asia FM Ltd. (SAFL).The two companies are owned and controlled by Mr. Kalanidhi Maran, and the money was utilised by these companies for their business, the complaint alleged.K. Shanmugam, managing director of SAFL, SDTPL and SAFL, has also been named as accused in the complaint.Mr. Dayanidhi Maran obtained the proceeds of crime (Rs. 742.58 crore) by camouflaging it as capital contribution in SDTPL and SAFL and, thus, committed the offence of money laundering under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, the complaint said.SDTPL is owned and controlled by Mr. Kalanidhi Maran and Ms. Kaveri Kalanidhi, being the chairman and the director respectively. It received the proceeds of crime, Rs. 549.03 crore for Mr. Dayanidhi Maran in the guise of foreign investment, which was consumed by it in its business, the complaint said.SAFL received Rs. 193.55 crore for Mr. Dayanidhi Maran by projecting it as capital contribution received by the company. This amount was also consumed by SAFL in its business.The ED has already attached assets of Mr. Dayanidhi Maran, Mr. Kalanidhi Maran and Ms. Kaveri Kalanidhi and other accused equivalent to proceeds of crime of (Rs. 742.58 crore).