http://www.thehindu.com/features/education/college-and-university/Education-news-from-around-the-world/article13990374.ece

PROMOTING CHILD EDUCATIONSamina Begum, 14, and Jessica Hardy, 15, from Limehurst academy in Loughborough, U.K., have become ambassadors for a campaign that promotes child education. Both of them will travel to Kenya next month on behalf of Send My Friend to School campaign that aims at promoting universal human right to education. They will learn about the obstacles faced by deaf children in Kenya during schooling, and, on their return, help promote the campaign through mainstream and social media. According to reports, the judges were particularly impressed with the girls’ passion, knowledge, humour and self-motivation.MOU WITH CANADA RENEWEDThe Union Cabinet, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has given the green signal for renewal of Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Canada for cooperation in Higher Education. The move aims at facilitating mutually beneficial linkages in science, technology and innovation and strengthening relations through cooperative activities. According to an official statement, the MoU between India and Canada was signed in June, 2010 for cooperation in higher education for a period of five years. The MoU includes exchange of undergraduate, postgraduate, vocational and postdoctoral fellows, joint organisation of workshops, seminars, meetings, specialist training and much more.AFFORDABLE HIGHER EDUCATIONWestern Governors University, Texas, a non-profit online university created four years ago, is paving the path to higher education for students in the state. The university is gaining popularity for providing affordable and flexible education to students. Non-traditional students, such as those who have a family and a full-time job, are finding the course very useful as they are able to pursue a course of their choice while juggling their day-to-day activities. The university offers more than 50 undergraduate and graduate programmes in information technology, business, K-12 teacher education and health professions including nursing.