http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Educate-people-on-backwardness-of-Rayalaseema-writers-told/article14017346.ece

A two-day workshop for young writers and poets of Rayalaseema, being organised by Rayalaseema Mahasabha, an organisation working for creation of awareness among the public about the problems being faced by Rayalaseema, began here on Saturday.The workshop is being organised under the guidance of Rachapalem Chandrasekhara Reddy, a Sahitya Academy winner, and Goreti Venkanna, folk singer and lyricist from Telangana who played a crucial role in providing the literature for the Telangana statehood movement.Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Chandrasekhara Reddy said that the role that would be played by poets and writers, especially the young ones, would always be a major one in any movement that the Rayalaseema region might see given the continuing backwardness of the region and its people.“The responsibility of the poets and writers and the role that they should play will be the focus of the workshop. The young writers will get training in writing poems, songs, essays and stories on the region and its people,” said Mr. Chandrasekhara Reddy.Mr. Venkanna said that many of the songs rendered during the Telangana movement came from his experiences during his tours in Rayalaseema.The fact that Rayalaseema remains neglected demands attention from law makers and the government. In the absence of it (attention from the successive governments), movements such as the one in Telangana would crop up, Mr. Venkanna opined.K. Kullayappa, secretary of Rayalaseema Mahasabha, said the primary objective of the organisation was to fight for an allotment of 400 TMC for the Rayalaseema region and in the process sensitising and educating the people regarding the problems they were facing.“When the demand for separate Telangana cropped up, we played a vociferous role in rejecting the bifurcation. While we (people of Rayalaseema) are yet to come to terms with it, the government, which is undoubtedly tilted towards the coastal region, is concentrating on development of the Capital region,” Mr. Kullayappa pointed out.