http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/Efforts-on-to-wean-youth-away-from-radicalism/article13997291.ece

Hyderabad police has roped in the services of a think-tank for executing its ‘de-radicalisation’ and ‘disengagement’ strategy to wean youth away from radical elements outside the country.The think-tank working on national and international security issues and counter-terrorism policies is helping out the police to devise the strategy after studying similar strategies adopted by countries like United Arab Emirates, Singapore, Israel, Yemen, United Kingdom, Malaysia, Netherlands and the United States. The think-tank comprises security experts such as K.C. Reddy, former DGP of Meghalaya and security advisor to the United Nations, and senior IPS officers, who have worked in counter-terrorism wings of various forces.“The focus of the think-tank is devising the best ways to disengage the educated youth and others who are on the threshold of fundamentalist ideological prisms,” said Ramesh Babu Kanneganti, founder director of Centre for Human Security Studies (CHSS), which is assisting on the strategy paper.“Our think tank will come up with practical and actionable policy inputs on how best one can deter the radical and extremist elements,” he said.The submission of strategy will lead to setting up of a centre in the city to take forward the policies involving public intellectuals, community leaders and academics.Similar strategies adopted in several countries have proven to be productive and police officials feel they can be replicated with success. One of the key elements in the strategies in other countries is engaging inter-faith and cross-cultural associations and the media apart from training the intelligence force. Police force needs to understand terrorism issue holistically and modernise itself to understand the youngsters’ thinking, Dr. Ramesh Babu said.Given the growing influence of Internet and people getting radicalised online, the strategy paper is suggesting the effective ways to monitor social media activities of the identified youngsters. Singapore used it quite effectively. In fact, Singapore adopted strategies right from school-level infusing among the kids the strengths of multi-ethnicity and multi-cultuaralism for nation’s and individual’s growth.City police is already practising de-radicalisation with some success, says Y. Nagi Reddy, Joint Commissioner of Police (Special Branch), Hyderabad.He said Muslim scholars have been involved in counselling identified radicalised youth on how terror organisations are misinterpreting Islam. “So far 19 youngsters were counselled and even their families were involved to infuse confidence among them.”Dr. Ramesh Babu says models of other countries cannot be blindly adopted here given the different social and political environment. Direct involvement of police would be minimal while religious leaders and public intellectuals will play a pro-active role in the suggestions to be made.“Like Israel, we cannot depend on disproportionate use of force,” he says. Continuous engagement is the key to creating employment opportunities. The strategy paper will be submitted very soon.