http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/Embracing-the-transgender-community-through-art/article14019832.ece

Twenty-seven-year-old Poornima Sukumar, a city-based artist, has launched a project, titled Aravani Art Project, which aims to draw the transgender community into the mainstream arts and crafts arena.She got acquainted with the community in Bengaluru last year when she was assisting a filmmaker who was making a documentary on them. “Most of them depend on sex work or beg to make their ends meet. I wanted to start something that would help them earn a living," she said.For Ms. Sukumar, the wall is her canvas. She has worked on various community projects, including painting government schools to make them more attractive for students. She has also painted shelters for the homeless in Mumbai, and in 2014, spent several days in a truck between Hyderabad to Kashmir for her ‘Winter on Wheels’ project. On the way, she stopped at several cities, painted walls and collected relief material for the flood-hit people in Jammu and Kashmir.In her latest endeavour, she wants to use a more inclusive form of art. On Sunday, she kicked off her project by bringing artists and members of the transgender community to a wall near K.R. Market. The idea was to introduce people from different walks of life to one another. “I wanted to bridge the gap and wanted the community to open up. In the process, we have also created a colourful wall."Purushi, a transgender who participated in Sunday’s event, said after they painted the wall, they also got their backs painted. “It was to signify that we are there in the community and are not visible. The art installation has boosted our morale and has helped us identify hidden talents,” she said. She also hoped that this project would help transgenders find employment in arts and crafts.Ms. Sukumar has also conducted workshops for many transgenders interested in arts. Next under the project, she plans to get people to hand-paint bottles, which will then be sold for Rs. 100. Four people from the third gender will be roped in for the project.