http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Encroachments-demolished-amid-high-drama/article14021056.ece

It has become a cat and mouse game between traders and the Municipal Corporation of Rajahmundry (MCR) ever since the later served notice for demolition of the shops came up illegally in the cellars meant to be used as parking lot. There has been a stiff resistance from Rajamahendravaram Chamber of Commerce (RCC) and traders on the Municipal Commissioner’s decision to go ahead on a demolition spree that began on Monday.On Monday, the MCR authorities cracked down on the cellar encroachments, adding to the growing discontent among traders. The new Municipal Commissioner, V. Viajayrama Raju, who worked as the Sub-Collector till the first week of December last year, started the demolition drive to provide breathing space to citizens and for the beautification of the city.Unfazed by the tremendous political pressures against the move, the MCR authorities served two types of notices on 58 people who were running shops from the cellars at different important junctions in the city. City Planner Saibaba, Assistant City planners N. Srinivasa Rao and B. Ranga Prasad, three Town Planning Supervisors and two Building Inspectors arrived at the Surya Hotel in Danavaipeta area at 8.30 a.m to demolish the encroachments. They received a stiff resistance from the representatives of RCC and the hotel management.Town planning authorities made them clear that they would demolish the cellar. Meanwhile, Central Zone DSP Kulasekhar pressed police forces into action and brought the situation under control. The authorities demolished the cellars at Surya hotel, Gandhi Surgicals, apart from readymade shops and hangings on the road.According to Mr. Saibaba, notice number 452 was served for 58 cellars of multi-storied building out of the 120 identified illegal and again notice number 636 was served for the cellar owners and three days were given to vacate the place. The management of Surya Hotel filed a case in the High Court which was rejected.Meanwhile, the shop owners whose shops in the cellars were demolished blamed the officials for not giving ample time to vacate. Venkateswara Rao, owner of the Gandhi Surgicals said: “I have received the notice 29 days back and I have informed my building owner who said that he will take care of the issue. I have asked time up to January 28 when I received the second notice. Suddenly, municipal authorities arrived this morning and demolished my shop without even giving me time to vacate it.”Speaking to The Hindu , the Municipal Commissioner made it clear that cellar encroachments would not be spared. He explained that the High Court has directed the government to go ahead with the procedures. He maintained that the MCR has taken up the operation as per the rules, added that ample time was given for the cellars owners to vacate.