http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Encroachment-bid-on-backwater-foiled/article13995669.ece

Amid reports about a rise in backwater encroachments in and around Kochi, the revenue administration has intervened to stop the attempts to construct an artificial island in the middle of the Kochi backwaters through illegal reclamation of land.Reclamation works in the area have been stopped ever since S. Suhas, Fort Kochi Sub-Collector, visited the location on Sunday and confirmed that the property was part of the Kochi backwater system. However, a verification of the village records later showed that the property had been classified as paddy land and owned by one Babu Paul.“Based on the finding, a report has been submitted to the district collector, recommending action against the property owner under section 13 of the Kerala Conservation of Paddy land and Wetland Act 2008. Further, the local police have been directed to register an FIR against the violators’’, the official said.The official has also sought a report from the Kanayannur Tehsildar about the incident and also directed the local panchayat to take action against the culprits under relevant sections of the Panchayathi Raj Act. Besides, the police have been asked to carry out regular patrolling in the area.4 acres of land reclaimedAn inspection of the area on Sunday revealed that the violators had already reclaimed about four acres of land, located in the middle of the Kochi backwater system near Kumbalam. The reclamation was carried out after demarcating the area with bamboo polls and filling mud inside.“The filling operations had been carried out for the last couple of months using a floating excavator. Country boats carrying soil and mud were brought from locations as far as Udayamperoor and Mangayikkavala’’, sources said. While the Kumbalam village authority reportedly served a stop-memo about three weeks ago, the operations continued until Mr. Suhas visited the location. He was accompanied by the police and Revenue officials.