http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Endeavour-to-preserve-purity-of-Kathakali-music/article13995216.ece

: A group of young-generation Kathakali aficionados in Palakkad has launched an initiative aimed at preserving the contributions of Madambi Subramanian Namboodiri in the field of vocal Kathakali music. Madambi Subramanian Namboodiri is known for his efforts to preserve the distinct purity of Kathakali music by resisting radical progressivism.The project will digitally document his musical sojourn spread over half a century. Begun on New Year day, the endeavour will video and audio document his renditions apart from creating a digital database on his efforts towards preserving the purity of Kathakali music. A new website — www.kathakalipadam.com — has been formed to make the musical works accessible to enthusiasts and researchers. “The project will extend up to six months during when Madambi would join us to sing and record a number of original Kathakali musical works, which are not in circulation at present. We are initiating it without any help from Kerala Kalamandalam or any agency,” said T M Vikar, a Singapore-based IT professional, who initiated the process.“Unbridled imagination of a new generation of vocalists has posed a threat to the composite character of Kathakali in the 21st century. It was in the light of this scenario that we decided to revisit contributions of Madambi along with those of his colleagues and connoisseurs,” said Shaji Mullukkaran, another IT expert behind the project.It was under the guidance of Kathakali singers Kalamandalam Neelakantan Nambeesan and Sivaraman Nair that Madambi played a pioneering role in setting the standard for training sessions of Kathakali music. A recipient of many honours, including the Kerala Kalamandalam Award and the Pattikkamthodi Ravunni Menon Smaraka Puraskaram, Madambi was always averse to experimentation.Born in Sreekrishnapuram in 1943 as the son of Sankaran Namboodiri and Sridevi Antharjanam, Madambi grew up in an environment that resonated with the art of Kathakali and other temple art traditions. He joined Kerala Kalamandalam as a student of Kathakali music in 1957.He acquired a thorough footing in singing the Thodayam and the Purappad before getting acquainted with the Aattakathas. On successful completion of his training at Kalamandalam, Madambi joined as a trainee-instructor at the Gandhi Seva Sadanam, Peroor, Palakkad, which was a haven in those days for young Kathakali artistes. In 1969, he was appointed an instructor of Kathakali music at Kalamandalam. “I feel it is a great honour as my efforts are being preserved for future generations. The move would maintain the rich heritage and standard of our performing art forms,” he said.