http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/End-of-a-poetic-era-in-Kannada-films/article14004350.ece

Death of renowned lyricist and film-maker Geetapriya marks the end of a poetic era in Kannada films. He carved a niche for himself in the Kannada film industry by offering a song for every section of society and directing in all genres.In his five-decade career as a lyricist and film-maker, he only cared for giving the best and money did not matter to him. He directed many top stars in Kannada, including Rajkumar and Vishnuvardhan, and launched several others.Though Marathi was his mother tongue, his love for Kannada poetry knew no bounds. Renowned Kannada writer and poet Pu.Ti. Narasimhachar and writers including Shivaram Karanth, Masti Venkatesha Iyengar, Ta.Ra. Subba Rao and Aa. Na. Krishna Rao shaped his poetic sensibilities.It was renowned music composer Vijaya Bhaskar, who brought him into the film world. He wrote his first song for Shri Rama Pooja in 1954. Since then, he penned songs for most of the films for which Vijaya Bhaskar scored music.His songs such as Jagadishanaduva, Neenelli Nadeve Doora, Aadutiruva Modagale, Yaava Janmada Maithri, catapulted him to the league of major lyricists. Ninelli Nadeve Doora, which he wrote for Onde Balliya Hoogalu was sung by none other than Mohammed Rafi. The word besuge was used 64 times in a song in Besuge (1976) directed by him.Manninamaga , starring Rajkumar, was his directorial debut in 1968 and the film ran for over 100 days in Kapali theatre. To this day, songs from the film such as Idena Sabhyate and Bhagavanta Kai Kotta remain the favourite of Kannadigas. It got a National Film Award for the Best Feature Film in Kannada and won the Karnataka State Film Award for Best Screenplay.Hombisilu directed by him, starring Vishnuvardhan, was a landmark film in the history of Kannada films. The film unveiled another face of Vishnuvardhan’s talent. Other notable films of Geetapriya are Beluvalada Madilalli, Besuge, Putani Agent 123, Mouna Geete, Yava Janmada Maithri, and Anuraga Bandhana. He also directed three Tulu films and one Hindi film ( Anmol Sitare ). Shravana Sambhrama (2003) was his last film.Geetapriya, who almost knocked on the door of death had not only recovered from his condition, but also bagged Dr. B. Saroja Devi National Award in 2012. In recognition of his contribution to Kannada film industry, Karnataka government honoured him by conferring him Puttanna Kanagal award in 1986.