http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Mangalore/Ensure-none-is-affected-by-proposed-Kulai-fishing-harbour-administration-told/article14017579.ece

The public hearing on environment impact assessment (EIA) for the proposed Kulai fishing harbour on Saturday turned out to be a meeting to pour out grievances and suggestions by the fishermen community of the region.Their major demand has been that there should be no displacement of people from the region where the harbour is coming up, like it happened in the case of New Mangaluru Port. The government should fulfil the promise then made by U. Srinivas Mallya while asking fishermen to create space for the world-class port, demanded Vasudeva Boloor, Vice President of National Fish Workers’ Forum. Additional Deputy Commissioner Kumar, who was chairing the meeting, said all the grievances will be looked into.Yatish Baikampady, CEO of Panambur Beach Development Project, wanted to know from the administration if there would be periodical dredging in the proposed harbour and whether there are plans to prevent sea erosion near the South of breakwater as experienced in many other fishing harbours in the region.Meanwhile, Sharath Guddekoppal, a fisherman, urged the administration to take the local population into confidence. Deputy Mayor Purushottam Chitrapura said people residing on government land, now earmarked for the harbour project, should not be displaced. All of them have applied for regularisation of encroachment, he said. Former Mayor Ganesh Hosabettu too expressed similar opinion and demanded that no one should be affected by the project.When Mr. Kumar pointed out that it was an EIA meeting, the fishermen said they were aware of that fact, and they were airing grievances since the local population had been kept in the dark.The Kulai Fishing Harbour will come up on 11 acres of land in the villages of Kulai, Chitrapura, Hosabettu and Panambur villages at a cost of Rs. 230 crore to rehabilitate fishermen who had lost their space to New Mangalore Port Trust.Of the Rs. 230 crore, the Union Ministry of Agriculture will bear 40 per cent cost, the Ministry of Shipping and NMPT 30 per cent each.The port, to be built ‘encroaching’ into the sea with breakwaters, could facilitate 1,000 country boats fitted with outboard engines or about 275 mechanised vessels.Karnataka State Environment Pollution Control Board’s Mangaluru Environment Officer Rajashekar Puranik told a public hearing on environment impact assessment here on Saturday that a comprehensive EIA report for the project was prepared by Eco Chem Sales and Services, Surat. The project involves construction of quay and jetty, dredging and reclamation, breakwater, fish handling and auction halls and fish loading area among others.