http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/Entertainer-to-the-core/article14011961.ece

V eena Nair is on a fun ride these days. At present, she is listed as one of the actresses who can handle humour with ease. A classical dancer, Veena has some solid roles on the small screen to her credit. The actor, who had a cracker of a debut on the big screen as Panchayat president Sholly in Vellimoonga ,is now busy with movies, and is acting in two comedy serials – ‘Thatteem Mutteem’ on Mazhavil Manorama and ‘Indumukhi Chandramathi’ on Surya TV. There is also a re-run of her serial ‘Akkamma Stalinum Pathrose Gandhiyum’ on Asianet Plus. She is also busy with various stage shows. Over to an ecstatic Veena:Tryst with cameraI am a product of the youth festival circuit. I started learning dance at the age of four, thanks to my late mother, Lathika, who was a dancer herself. I won the district-level Kalathilakam in 2006. That win got me media attention and that’s how I got my first break on television on Surya TV. Unfortunately the serial went off air before my scenes were telecast. Next came ‘Makal’ on Asianet. After that I did a lot of serials such as ‘Sasneham’, ‘Shyamambaram’, ‘Veendum Jwalayaayi’, ‘Kunjalimarakkar’, ‘Nilavilakku’, and a couple of mythological serials. I starred in a Tamil serial as well – ‘Thenral’ on Sun TV.On the comedy trackIt just happened. I was doing mostly roles with negative shades. ‘Sanmanasullavarkku Samadhanam’ was the one serial in which I handled bit of comedy. However, a full-fledged comedy role came my way in ‘Thatteem Mutteem’. I play Kokila, daughter of the character played by Lalithamma (KPAC Lalitha). She is always at loggerheads with her sister-in-law, played by Manju Pillai. Lalithamma and Manju handle comedy so effortlessly that sharing the screen space with them always brings out the best in me. That eventually opened the doors to movies.Acting inVellimoongaManju [Pillai] chechi was actually the first choice for the role. Since she was unavailable, I was offered the role, thanks to Jibu [Jibu Jacob, director of Vellimoonga] chettan’s wife who suggested my name to him after seeing my role in ‘Thatteem Mutteem’. I was nervous about acting with artistes such as Biju Menon, Tini Tom and others. I took acting, seriously after the movie. I also found that I had a flair for comedy and that I should cash in on that. I acted in movies such as Oru Second Class Yathra, Mariyam Mukku, and Chandrettan Evideya since Vellimoonga. Adupuliyattam with Jayaram is my forthcoming release.You stepped into Manju’s shoes in the new season of 'Indumukhi vs. Chandramathi' as well?(Laughs) True. She withdrew because she wanted to spend more time with her family and so I was the second choice. I am enjoying every bit of it, especially acting opposite Mallika chechi (Mallika Sukumaran). She is a terrific person, so full of life and her energy is infectious.Comfort zoneI enjoy making people laugh and am part of comedy skits with my co-actors of Vellimoonga. We have performed across Kerala and abroad too. Dance has taken a backseat as of now. I am looking forward to do some strong character roles in future. Although I was not planning to act after after my marriage, my husband, singer Swathy Suresh Bhymi, and my in-laws encouraged me to continue working. So everything is a bonus for me.('Thatteem Mutteem' airs on Mazhavil Manorama on Saturdays at 9.30 p.m. and 'Indumukhi Chandramathi' airs on Surya TV on weekdays at 8 p.m.)