http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Entrance-requirements-burden-village-offices/article14018925.ece

Students applying for the State engineering and medical entrance examinations have been running from pillar to post to secure certificates to prove their religion, community, caste, nativity, social status, and income. Village offices across the State have been flooded with applications for those certificates, inflicting burden on the staff.Although the Commissioner for the Entrance Examinations (CEE) has specified everything in detail on its website, a large number of students and parents reaching village offices have displayed ignorance of the real requirements. Most candidates who have chosen to apply through Akshaya centres have been advised to provide certificates which are not actually required. For example, a student born in the State or has got SSLC book need not provide a nativity certificate. A copy of the birth certificate or the SSLC book will be sufficient to prove the student’s nativity, pointed out CEE officials.ConfusionAkshaya centres have generally been advising the students to secure all certificates irrespective of their requirement or not. “We don’t want to take any risk. When in confusion, it is better to have all papers,” said an Akshaya entrepreneur here, pleading not to quote his name.Village officers said that people’s confusion was causing them added work. Long queues were seen at village offices in recent days. “In fact, we are made to issue many certificates when they are not actually needed. But we have to do our job anyway,” said Sofia Jains, Ponmala village officer. Cases of people wrangling over income certificates and non-creamy layer certificates have been common in some villages. Village officers have widely been pressured to issue certificates with lower income. “People are not aware. They don’t actually lose their opportunity by showing their real income,” Ms. Jains said. Jessy Mehroos, mother of an applicant from Venniyoor, said that parents should display honesty at all levels, including the applications.“We are the models for our children. When we cheat, how can we expect our children to be honest?” she asked.