http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Erratic-parking-of-vehicles-leads-to-traffic-jams/article14001014.ece

Traffic jams have become order of the day in Srikakulam, despite widening of roads in many important routes such as GT Road and Collector Bungalow's Road, thanks to lack of parking facility for auto-rickshaws and taxis. The taxis have little parking in the Day and Night Junction and Seven Road Junction. The situation for auto-rickshaws is horrible as the drivers are being forced to stop their vehicles on roads, leading to traffic snarls. The number of vehicles plying on Srikakulam road has gone up to 28,000 from 20,000 in the last three years.Police says it is the responsibility of civic body to provide parking places for auto-rickshaws so that the traffic jams would come down.It is estimated that morew than 2,000 auto-rickshaws are playing in the town as majority of the people use their services in the absence of city buses.“Many autos from nearby towns such as Narasannapeta, Amadalavalasa, and Etcherla come regularly, apart from the existing autos in the district head quarter. We tried to regulate them by suggesting different routes such as Balaga-China Bazaar route to minimise their presence in places like RTC Bus Stand. But, the people strongly opposed. That is why we have withdrawn the restrictions. The district administration should look into the issue,” said a senior police officer.According to officials, the police could convince the APSRTC to opt the New Bridge Road instead of the Day and Night Junction for the vehicles which come from Visakhapatnam.Entry of heavy vehicles into the town was also banned. However, they could ease the traffic only to some extent. The proposed ring road is expected to ease the traffic congestion in the town in future.The police recently started announcements at important junctions to make people to follow traffic rules.“The RTC drivers and others stop vehicles in important junctions. That is why we have introduced public address system which help bring pressure on the drivers,” said another official.Srikakulam Citizen Forum president Baratam Kameswara Rao urged the government to convene a meeting with officials of police, municipal corporation, APSRTC and others to regulate the traffic in Srikakulam.