http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Everyday-diamonds/article14024680.ece

For like forever, diamonds were a rich girl’s best friend. Lately, though, diamonds have become every girl’s best friend; jewellery that doesn’t necessarily empty your pockets to buy or flaunt. With fashionable, ‘light-weight’ diamond jewellery now available at affordable rates in jewellery stores, it’s little wonder that women of all ages, are in favour of some serious bling.“They wear diamonds because it’s stylish, contemporary, easy to wear and easy to keep. They go with just about anything and are suitable for just about every occasion,” say Gayatri Suhas of Bhima Jewellers, where diamond necklaces are available for under a lakh, and Reenu Sabari, who runs the Tanishq outlet in the city, which also has several stunning collections of pretty earring, pendants and even tiny jhumkas covered in diamonds. “Our clientele for this range has largely been young working women, homemakers and college-goers, all looking to add a style statement to everyday wear. We’ve also had a fair number of customers wanting small sets of earrings and pendants for use abroad. For many others this has become a good gifting option,” adds Gayatri.Bangalore-based jewellery designer Pallavi Dudeja Foley, who worked with Tanishq for a decade, before striking out on her own, explains the trend as an example of asserting one’s identity and individuality.“Young India has many folds the disposable income than what it had even a decade back ago and many people nowadays don’t think much before loosening their purse strings to look chic. It’s also got a lot to do with lifestyle changes. Many of them are independent men and women, jet-setters, who are aware of trends and thus more global in their tastes. For them, the latest gizmo is not trendy enough as everyone has it. Most of them want to express their personal style through products and accessories that define their taste,” she explains.Affordable, light–weight diamond jewellery has been in vogue for around eight years now but it’s only been the last couple of years that the trend has really picked up, particularly on the back of constantly fluctuating gold prices.Major jewellers were smart enough to capitalise on the trend, playing on the ‘diamonds are forever’ tag, literally and figuratively, and many of them claim to give 100 per cent buy back guarantee on diamonds, “in itself a huge selling point.”Today, there are tiny earrings, pendants, necklaces, lockets, rings, nose pins, bracelets, bangles and even belly rings, in gold, white gold and platinum, all studded with precious stones and/or diamonds.“For a long while diamond jewellery was aspirational, off limits to the larger public because it was not seen as affordable. That mindset has changed,” says Amjad, marketing head of Malabar Gold and Diamonds, among the first of the big jewellery stores to pick up on the trend, with its diamond jewellery range, ‘Mine,’ starting at Rs. 5,000.“Our idea was that customers treat light-weight diamonds as a stepping stone to pieces of higher value. It’s been a good decision for us for we are able to give quality stuff at competitive rates to our customers,” he adds.T.S. Kalyanaraman, managing director and chairman, Kalyan Jewellers, which has an enviable collection of light-weight diamond jewellery under the sub-brand ‘Hera,’ priced Rs. 8,000 and upwards, elaborates: “Diamonds have always been marketed as a luxury product, but with the increase in double-income households and the growing middle class, we felt that there is an opportunity in positioning this luxury item as an affordable one,” he says, adding that they were successfully able to target two distinctive groups of customers – young, city-bred women looking for everyday wear and a whole new set of customers, “those who harbour an unfulfilled desire to own and wear diamonds.”Even then, jewellers say that customers had to be taught to think bling.Kalyan Jewellers, for instance, launched the ‘Diamonds are for everyone’ campaign in early 2015 [recall the ad featuring actor Manju Warrier and the diamond jewellery to be bought for Rs. 10,000?] thus tapping the needs of the ‘aspirational’ Indian middle class.“Most of India has predominantly been a gold market. Diamonds were always looked at as an aspirational social statement. Apart from that, Indian buyers are also cautious. They want to know if diamonds are a good investment. In response to their needs we introduced certified and affordable diamond jewellery. Today, our affordable diamond segment is doing very well in the metros and we see a growing demand in the smaller towns and cities. The price point of this collection makes it a perfect gifting option and we see spikes in sales during seasons like Valentine’s Day, Mother’s Day, Rakshabandan and Deepavali,” says Kalyanaraman.SOMETHING PRECIOUSDepending on the 4Cs (cut, clarity, colour and carat) of the diamonds, prices of these accessories can range anywhere from Rs. 2,000 (the bottom rung is often set in 14k gold) to several lakh of rupees for 22k necklaces studded with dozens of diamonds. “Most of the contemporary, work/casual wear pieces are set in 18k gold, while the more traditional designs (read floral patterns) come in 22k gold,” explains Reenu. Most of the light-weight pieces carry 0.2 to half to one carat certified diamonds, according to the jewellers. “We never compromise on quality of the diamonds and do the certifications in our factory itself prior to each being set in gold,” she adds.