http://www.thehindu.com/in-school/sh-science/Evidence-for-expansion/article14005164.ece

You’ve heard of Hubble, haven’t you? Even if not about the person, you should have surely encountered the space telescope named in his honour and the images that it has had to offer during its course of operation over the past 25 years.The Hubble Space Telescope, launched in 1990, still remains in operation and is among the chief instruments used for these observations. In case you are wondering what you need to do to get one of the coolest devices in existence named after you, the answer is pretty simple – you could probably become a cosmologist, just like Edwin Hubble, who is regarded as one of the foremost observational cosmologists of the previous century.Building on others’ workWe’ll wind back over 100 years to the 1910s to lay the foundation for what led to Hubble’s most important observations. To be specific, Hubble built on the work done by two others to make his breakthrough.The first of these was Henrietta Leavitt’s discovery of the period-luminosity scale. This allowed astronomers to calculate the distance to variable stars from Earth. Vesto Slipher’s investigation of spiral nebulae allowed him to calculate radial velocities. The Doppler shift enabled him to identify a few galaxies that were approaching ours, and a large majority that were moving away at high speeds.So when Hubble was hired at Mount Wilson Observatory in 1919, he was lucky because the 100-inch reflecting telescope had just come into existence. As a careful observer, who took his work seriously, Hubble peered through the telescope to look at the patches called nebulae and photographed the same.Using Leavitt’s discovery, Hubble was able to ascertain in 1924 that the Andromeda galaxy was more than 9, 00,000 light years away from Earth, way beyond our own galaxy, the Milky Way. He wasn’t, however, done yet as he continued working with his assistant, Milton Humason, to measure the distance and Doppler shift of as many galaxies as they could. It was these observations that led to the landmark 1929 paper which he communicated on January 17, 1929.An expanding universe!The most important relationship that Hubble established through his findings was the fact that the red shift of the galaxies was directly proportional to the distance of the galaxy from Earth. What this means is that, for you as an observer, if a galaxy is further away from you, then it is moving away from you faster.Though he did not make the interpretation, this paper led to the realisation that the universe was in fact expanding! Hubble believed that it was “premature to discuss in detail the obvious consequences of the present results,” leaving it instead for the reader to decide.Among other things, these results led to the postulation of the Big Bang theory and determining the age of the universe. Even though Hubble is often credited with the greatest astronomical discovery of the 20th century, he acknowledges that the discoveries were not entirely his own (Georges Lemaitre had in fact proposed a similar theory in 1927), and were built on the work done by those who came before him.An expanding universe meant that one of our basic premises and understanding of where we live had to be altered. It has let us look further out into the vastness of our universe, while at the same time look back and figure out the very beginning of space and time.Write to A.S.Ganesh at ganesh.a.s@thehindu.co.in