http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/entertainment/Experiments-with-verse/article13990256.ece

Lovers of poetic expression can explore the history of spoken-word form of poetry that’s largely influenced by the free verse, musical style of Beat poets like Jack Kerouac and Allen Ginsberg today.PEN@Prithvi is the PEN All-India Centre's initiative in collaboration with Prithvi Theatre. Their event, ‘Spoken Word for Cultural Commentary’ will feature performances by five poets: Aditi Angiras and Abhimanyu Verma from Delhi and Shruti Sunderraman; Rochelle D’Silva and Preeti Vangani from Mumbai.Jennifer Robertson, a banker turned poet who co-curates Literary Encounters at PEN@Prithvi, says, “Spoken word poetry is a form that is radical. The excitement is in the fact that it is not read out from a page. It goes beyond the traditional boundaries and syntax of literature and performance. It is immediate and engaging.”Angiras, the founder of Bring Back The Poets, says, “A lot of spoken word poetry is happening in Mumbai but there is no cultural or literary discussion around it. We want to look at histories of spoken word poetry by tracing the influence of hip hop, jazz and blues. And we want to discuss the use of this form to talk about resistance, identity and social issues. In India, we have had our own long legacy of oral traditions. They too have a bearing on our work.” Her work focuses on using spoken word poetry to discuss sexuality, queer politics, and activism.Sunderraman will perform a piece highlighting how human beings like to blame others instead of looking inside. She is also curious about why they are terrified of communication despite having multiple tools to communicate. Her inspiration comes from poets such as Jack Kerouac, Allen Ginsberg, Charles Bukowski and Charlotte Bronte. “I love the fact that the performer is in control. The ambiguity associated with words on a page is not there. When you are in front of an audience, you can be the poem,” says Sunderraman.Verma is the only one in this group who does not perform in English. He is an engineer by education, and an event manager by profession.He says, “Most of the Urdu poetry I have encountered is limited to romanticising life. Even Faiz Ahmed Faiz who wrote about revolution was too soft, according to me. Hardly anyone is performing spoken word poetry in Urdu. I like it because it gives me the freedom to be harsh, to speak about gender, the environment, and current political inconveniences.”This experience is different from what people experience at school. It is a live engagement. The physicality, the music, and the personality of the poet work together to produce an impact. Such performances are usually held in cafes, pubs and cultural centres.Angiras wants to move these out to parks and other public spaces for wider access. “You do not have to buy a ticket to listen. In theory, it is free. But you may often have to buy something at the place where the event is being hosted. This could come up to Rs 500. My critique of spoken word culture is exactly around this problem. We talk about human rights and challenging hierarchies. But we perform in spaces available only to a particular class.”Spoken Word for Social Commentary will take place at Prithvi House at 6.30 pm today.(The author is a freelance writer)