http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/Extends-support-to-State-projects/article13981954.ece

Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had a luncheon meeting with the Union Minister for Road Transport, Highways and Shipping Nitin Gadkari here on Monday, before flying to Warangal district to lay foundation stone for the four-laning of Warangal-Yadagirigutta section of NH-163.On his arrival from the airport, the Chief Minister received the Union Minister with a bouquet at the former’s official residence here. After lunch, the two had a brief discussion about irrigation projects proposed by Telangana across the Godavari river including some in the areas bordering Maharashtra, to which State Mr. Gadkari belongs to. The Union Minister assured the Chief Minister all cooperation to the projects proposed.Assembly Speaker S. Madhusudana Chary, Minister for Roads & Buildings Tummala Nageshwara Rao, Special Representative of Telangana at New Delhi S. Venugopala Chary, Chief Secretary Rajeev Sharma, Principal Secretary (R&B) Sunil Sharma, Director General of Police Anurag Sharma and MP B.B. Patil were among those who were present at the luncheon meeting.Action planAt a review meeting earlier, the Chief Minister directed the officials of Irrigation Department to prepare an action plan for execution of projects planned across Godavari and Krishna rivers and also for completing them in a time-bound manner. He directed the authorities to call tenders for Palamuru-Rangareddy and Dindi lift irrigation and Penganga projects at the earliest so that the process could be completed in two weeks.He wanted devolution of powers to the Chief Engineer and Superintending Engineer level officers for speedy decision making and execution of works. He stated that Rs.2,083 crore would be released to Irrigation Department every month from out of Rs.25,000 crore budget in the next fiscal and wanted the officials to match the funds with works in the field.The Chief Minister wanted the authorities to take up works on all proposed projects simultaneously since the redesigning of projects was also completed. He directed the officials to go for foundation laying for Kaleshwaram barrage at Medigadda soon so that water from the barrage could be given to Yellampally by June next year.