http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/Eye-on-Mumbai/article13986238.ece

he most striking aspect of Robert Stephens’s work is not the aerial view it gives of suburban contemporary Mumbai. It is the fact that they are in black and white. That, combined with the grainy quality owing to early morning fog, makes the photographs look like archival material from the past. It serves the purpose of the architect-photographer, who says, “The idea of documenting the present is perhaps more compelling than taking well-composed photographs.”But this is merely incidental to the artiste’s choice of black-and-white over colour. “I had earlier done a series on Chennai, where I took similar aerial shots, but in colour. That’s because I felt that the colours really form the identity of the city. But Mumbai is not best seen in colour, it is best seen in form and geography, ocean and land, high-rises and low-rises. The beauty is in the physical form.”Stephens shot the photographs over the course of a year: “I took them from an airplane but I don’t want to get into the micro details of the process.”His new series, an allied event of the State of Architecture exhibition currently running at the NGMA, presents the natural ecologies of northern Mumbai in such a way that it almost feels like it isn’t Mumbai, the cramped urban jungle, at all. He contextualises photos of nature with those of high-rises and slums. Each of the photos is accompanied by text, and the display includes a collection of archival books on Bombay that are up to 150 years old. “It’s not just about photos but a broader idea of understanding how the city has changed, and gives a sense of cross era history,” he says.What he also underlines is the irony of a city once rich in natural abundance that now struggles to find space for its people. This contradiction, he points out, is evident in the titles of the work.For instance, ‘Powai Artificial’ suggests how the island city, after having reclaimed land from the Arabian sea, created a man-made lake that is now so polluted that it is unfit for use as a reservoir.Another work, ‘17 Percent’, captures the vast expanse of the Sanjay Gandhi National Park, which Stephens calls ‘the city’s lungs’. “We never realise how big it is. It’s 17 per cent of Greater Bombay. It’s a huge natural resource right in the middle of the city. One reason why pollution in Mumbai is not as bad as Delhi is because we have the park to hold on to.”The artistStepehens, who draws his art from matters of architecture and urban planning, was born in the USA. He first came to Mumbai in 2004 with a couple of his fellow students of the architecture department of Virginia Tech, and fell in love with it.Two years later, he found himself a job in an architecture firm in the city. His first series of photos of the city, “Mumbai Articles: Contemporary Aerial Photographs of Mumbai”, focused on the southern part of the city. “I wasn’t a professional artist but Radhi Parekh, the founder of Artisans’, encouraged me to show my work. Mumbai really gave me the creative opportunity that I never got anywhere else,” he says. He talks about the city with an ownership rarely seen in citizens, let alone foreigners. “Because of its nature of migration, a number of citizens of Mumbai have a sense of a detachment from the city. They have their homes elsewhere. They’ve come to the city to make money. I try to live in a way that responds to that.”Mumbai North, Artisans’, Kala Ghoda,8-16 January