http://www.thehindu.com/features/education/Facing-the-test/article13977010.ece

The first batch of B.Tech students of the APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University of Kerala is going to appear for the first semester examinations. The syllabus is extensive consisting of six modules, in which the coverage is very high. Out of the six modules, internal examinations have been conducted based on the first four modules whereas module five and six are reserved for end semester examination with a higher weightage with more number of questions from that modules. There are six theory papers and two practicals in each semester, but there is no external evaluation for practicals. The method of examination system and valuation are also new. The electronic question paper will reach each centre in the morning of the examination and then hard copies are taken in the morning itself and distributed in the examination hall. The maximum number of pages of the answer books for the end semester is limited to 24. Hence the students should plan before answering each question. The answer books will be scanned and then will be send for evaluation. Double valuation is followed.Here are some points which the students should follow so that they will be able to face the examination with confidence.Gather as much information as possible: For four subjects, the question paper consists of three parts, Part A, Part B and Part C. Part A consists of short questions and all the questions have to be answered. Part B is from modules one to four and Part C from modules five and six. In these questions there is one choice each. Also the distribution of marks is different for these parts and varies from subject to subject. For Engineering Graphics and Engineering Mechanics there is only Part A and Part B. Before appearing for each of these examinations the students have to be thorough about the distribution of marks for the parts. Also one has to plan beforehand how much to write for short and long answer questions so that all the points are covered in the answer.Studying for each subject: The study method varies from one subject to the other. In many subjects, it is better to practise problem solving rather than reading.Use your study holidays effectively: One has to prepare a time table depending on the number of study holidays available and divide the time for different subjects. Get sufficient sleep too.Formulae book: Engineering studies consists of theorems, which involve a lot of formulae. It is always better to make readily available formulae book/sheet. This will enable you to save a lot of time. Also one can memorise these formulae by just going through this.Combined study: Combined studies will help a lot in engineering examinations. It should be taken seriously and not as wastage of time.Also, spare some time to improve your handwriting, if needed. If your handwriting is good then the evaluator will go through the answers in detail.The author is principal, Cochin University College of Engineering Kuttanad.Email: pssreejith2002@gmail.com