http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Farmers-defend-CFTRI-Director-MP-asked-to-back-off/article13993264.ece

The district sugarcane association has come out in support of CFTRI Director Ram Rajasekaran who was called “anti-Kannada” by the Mysuru MP, Pratap Simha.Association president Kurubur Shanthakumar criticised the MP for his “lack of knowledge” of CFTRI’s research and asked him to desist from entering into a feud with scientists.Mr. Simha criticised Mr. Rajasekaran in the presence of Harsh Vardhan, Union Minister for Science and Technology during the latter’s visit to the campus recently. The MP called the CFTRI Director “anti-Kannada”, besides accusing him of “victimising” the staff.Prof. Rajasekaran had reacted stating that there was no merit in such allegations and the MP should appreciate the work being done by the scientists. The response, which came a few days after the incident, said that the MP could have appreciated the hard work of the scientific community instead of speaking on unsubstantiated issues.Mr. Shanthakumar said that farmers have benefitted from the CFTRI’s initiatives including the supply of chia – considered a rich source of nutrients.The crop is a boon to dryland farmers and a private company has signed an MoU to buy it from the cultivators. At a time when farmers were in dire straits, this crop has come as a boon to the farmers and hence the local MP should not speak ill of the CFTRI Director but appreciate his efforts, said Mr. Shanthakumar.AgitationThe State Sugarcane Cultivators Association has announced an agitation to urge the government to pressurise private sugar factories in the district to clear the arrears due to them.It said that the agitation will be held on January 12 and they would lay siege to private cane crushing mills in the district, in a bid to recover the money due to the farmers.The association president said that though the government had directed the sugar mills to pay Rs. 2,469 per tonne of sugarcane for the farmers within 15 days of taking possession of the produce, the private factories had only paid Rs. 2,000 per tonne.