http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Fashion-blasts-with-colours/article14003239.ece

A brand new year is here and it’s also a time when the fashion-conscious are ardently following style blogs, attending fashion week around the globe, devouring fashion glossies, and poring over trend reports. And even if you don’t fall into this category, you could do with some fundas the fashion fraternity has to offer for 2016.Stylist and fashion blogger, Manvi Gandotra rounds up two of the biggest trends for the year. She says: “‘Maximalism’ will be a thing! Last year, we saw a sharp and neat minimalist designs dominate the runways. But it’s hard to stay away from explosions of colour, bold designs, and embroidered pieces for long. While our favourite geometric and clean-lined pieces will not go completely out of the scene yet, we will certainly see the re-emergence of the maximalist trend.”“A kitsch mix is also in store for us this year. Expect classic patterns, polka dots, stripes, and plaids to be mixed with different colours, layering patterns, and multidirectional shapes. There is going to be this artsy mash-up which not only adds dimension but also a pop of excitement to the basics. We will continue to see some interesting artwork inspired clothes with layering, checks and polka dots, multi-directional plaids, off-kilter chevrons, and subtle optical illusions,” she points out. According to Anaka Narayanan, owner-designer at Brass Tacks, “For women, the trend will lean towards clothes with angular hemlines and armholes, culottes, really long shirts, midi-length skirts and dresses, and boxy tops.”“Multi-hued, easy-to-wear and comfortable attire is going to make a statement this season,” observes Priya Vasudevan, owner of Collage. Coming to preferred cuts, styles, and silhouettes, she predicts: “This season is all about georgettes, cotton silks, crepes, cotton jacquards, mulmuls, hand woven fabrics, digital prints, embellished silhouettes in crinkled fabric and draped dresses. We will also get to see a lot of casual kurtas, dresses, flares, palazzos, and straight pants.”As far as the colour palette and prints for 2016 goes, “We will see colours of the same family together (various shades of green, for example),” Anaka adds. Fashion trends, as we know, are of cyclic nature. What’s in today is out tomorrow and vice versa. Freelance designer, Niyati Manoj, says, “comebacks would be in terms of Victorian fashion. From ruffles and puffy sleeves to high necklines, flower detailing, and the incorporation of lace, influences from the Victorian-era will manifest this year. Off shoulder tops and dresses will also be back on the fashion circuit. Denims will also be worn as dresses, shirts, and skirts in light-weight material.”“It’s time to use less of capes and crop tops, as it has been repeated quite often throughout the year,” Priya suggests, while Manvi thinks it’s time to bid adieu to platform sneakers.Now that you’ve got your style files all sorted, here’s to a fashionable year ahead!***What’s trending* 2016 is the year of angular hemlines, culottes, and midi skirts* Multihued and easy-to-wear attire will be popular* Victorian era fashion is set to make a comeback* It’s time to stop wearing capes and platform sneakers