http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/Father-relives-death-of-abducted-son/article14023724.ece

A father, who gave in to superstition, relived the pain of losing his son after being made to believe that the 12-year-old was still alive. Four months after he was abducted and murdered by three juveniles in North-East Delhi’s Jafrabad, a madrasa teacher, exploiting the father’s vulnerable state of mind, attempted to extort Rs.50 lakh from him.Mohd. Burahanuddin and his two associates were arrested from Saharanpur on Tuesday by a police team led by Anand Kumar Mishra, ACP, Seelampur.The victim Adi had been kidnapped for ransom from his house on the night of September 13 by a 17-year-old boy whose mother worked as a maid in the house. The suspect and two other boys, aged 15 and 13, confined Adi in a flat and forced an overdose of bhang to keep him quiet, said police.When the boy’s condition deteriorated, they strangled him, stuffed his body in a sack and dumped him in the Mansarovar Park area. The plan to demand a ransom was dropped.The decomposed body was recovered three days later, but police said it was unidentifiable. “The eyes had popped out and the body had turned black,” said sa senior police officer. The body was preserved for three days and when no one turned up to claim the body, it was cremated at an electric crematorium.Three days later, the boy’s parents had identified the boy as Adi based on pictures of his clothes and some other items. The boy’s footwear, too, was found in the room he was allegedly murdered in, said the police.Locals had at that time taken offence to the Muslim boy being cremated as per Hindu rituals and they had indulged in protests that left some policemen injured.In the meantime, realising that the murder was not reported, the abductors called Adi’s father Mehraaz Hassan to demand a ransom of Rs.10 lakh. Police had acted swiftly to trace and apprehend the suspects.However, Hassan was not convinced that the recovered body was that of his son’s. Hassan’s state of mind, combined with the delayed ransom call from the minor abductors, gave the madrasa teacher Burahanuddin an idea and he offered a talisman to Hassan saying his son was alive and would return to him someday.“Last Wednesday, Hassan received a call from a different number saying his son was alive and would be handed over to him if he paid a Rs.50 lakh ransom,” said Veenu Bansal, DCP (North-East).A hopeful as well as suspicious Hassan approached the police. Extensive efforts revealed that the extortionist was calling from the same phone, which Burahanuddin had been calling Hassan from.Hassan continued to negotiate with the callers on police’s direction. A trap was set in UP’s Saharanpur from where Burahanuddin and his associates Sameer and Billa were arrested on Tuesday.Mohd. Burahanuddin and his two associates were arrested from Saharanpur on Tuesday