http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Kochi/Faulty-water-supply-system-draining-Kochi-Corporation-coffers/article14018370.ece

Non-functional water taps and the ones that supply polluted water are draining the resources of the Kochi Corporation.The loss sustained by the local body has been listed out in the audit report carried out by the Local Fund Audit for the year 2012-13. The report was tabled in the Kochi Corporation council recently. The Corporation owed Rs.25.71 crore to the authority for supplying drinking water.The report also pointed out that the local body, which was spending huge amount on account of water charges to the Kerala Water Authority and to private contractors for supplying water in water scarce areas, was not keen on completing the projects that would enhance water supply.The local body was annually losing over Rs.10 lakh on water supply alone. An inspection carried out in the seven divisions of the local body revealed that there were 163 non-functional and 19 damaged ones for which the local body had to pay water charges. The authority had been charging Rs.5,256 a tap annually. There could be a large number of such taps in the other divisions of the local body, which would be draining the coffers, the report pointed out. It was also revealed that eight taps were located on private holdings and nine were supplying polluted water.On inspection in the first seven divisions, it was revealed that there were 26 taps for which there was only one consumer each. There could be similar connections in other parts of the local body. The government had earlier instructed that private and individual connections shall be provided by the local body after providing subsidies, the evaluation report said.The report also criticised the local body for failing to carry out joint inspections with the authority to determine the exact number of public water taps. A one-time settlement scheme initiated by the authority had fixed the total dues as Rs.36 crore and the Kochi Corporation had claimed to have repaid Rs.14.20 crore. However, the authority claimed Rs.25.71 crore as due from the local body, it pointed out.