http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/FB-route-for-the-Epic/article14022705.ece

Rajamahendravaram is popularly known as cultural capital of combined Andhra Pradesh and the first Telugu poet and writer ‘Adikavi’ Nannaya wrote the first Telugu version of the epic Andhra Maha Bharatam at this place.On the banks of same river Godavari, another young writer has started writing Ramayana in a simple Telugu version. Deekshitula Subrahmanyam, a senior sub-editor with a vernacular daily, has chosen social media as the platform to write Ramayana and titled it as ‘Seetarama Kathasudha’.The Valmiki's Ramayana is an epic poem of some 24,000 verses. The text survives in several thousand partial and complete manuscripts, the oldest of which is a palm-leaf manuscript found in Nepal and dated to the 11th century CE. The epic is traditionally divided into seven kandas (books) — Bala Kanda, Ayodhya Kanda, Aranya, Kishkindha, Sundara, Yuddha and Uttara Kanda, which deal chronologically with the major events in the life of Rama. Whereas, the ‘Seetharama Kathasudha’, written by Deekshitulu will have only six kandas.Explaing the reason behind this venture, Deekshitulu says that, the habit of story telling is slowly fading within the family traditions and the original Valmiki Ramayana is not available any where in the world as there are historic evidences that it was written about 8000 years ago on palm leaves. Many Vedic scholars, poets, pandits and writers have written in different languages.“But, I started reading simple version of Ramayana in Telugu version from my childhood and my grandparents and my mother used to tell me some of the short stories from the epic during bedtime. After working in different vernacular newspapers and spiritual magazines, one fine morning I decided to write in simple Telugu,” says Deekshitulu.He started writing Ramayana with the title ‘Seetharama Kathasudha’ in a local daily in the year 2007.But, the number of readers was not in good number as the circulation was restricted to only few areas for this daily. Then he decided to change the platform, and started writing on facebook.“In first few days I got only 100 to 200 likes and humbly posted in FB that I am not writing for “likes” and appealed to read thoroughly as a daily serial.” Slowly the number picked up and comments also increased. The readers from Dubai, London, Rumania, Tanzania, USA, Australia, New Zeeland, Russia and other countries started requesting Deekshitulu for printed version of the Ramayana.Thematically, the Ramayana explores human values and the concept of dharma, Deekshitulu adds. Like the Mahabharata, the Ramayana is not just a story, it presents the teachings of ancient Hindu sages in narrative allegory, interspersing philosophical and devotional elements. The characters Rama, Sita, Lakshman, Bharata, Hanuman and Ravana are all fundamental to the cultural consciousness of India, Nepal and many south-east Asian countries such as Thailand and Indonesia.Deekshitulu says that his next project is ‘Sri Krishna Vedam’ — a daily serial on Facebook after completing the rest of Ramayana kandas. He also reveals that the ‘Seetharama Kathasudha’ will be shortly be released through an e-book format.