http://www.thehindu.com/news/international/FBI-says-refugees-used-social-media-to-plan-fight-in-Syria/article13990281.ece

An Iraqi man bragged about his experience fighting in Syria and the skills he developed as a teenage insurgent as he urged a fellow Iraqi refugee in the U.S. to join him in what both hoped would be martyrdom, according to documents filed in federal court.Aws Mohammed Younis Al-Jayab (23), of Sacramento, described his experience fighting against Syrian government soldiers in heroic terms and promised in 2013 he would train Omar Faraj Saeed Al Hardan, of Houston, in how to use weapons and sneak into Syria to join the fight, according to an FBI affidavit unsealed in federal court in Sacramento.The two Iraqi-born Palestinians used social media to discuss their plans, according to federal authorities. The communications provided the link that led to terrorism—related charges against the men this week.Al-Jayab faces up to eight years in prison on charges of travelling to Syria to fight in late 2013 and early 2014 and lying to U.S. authorities about his travels. Al Hardan faces up to 25 years in prison and is charged with attempting to provide material support for terrorists.Al-Jayab’s attorney on Friday criticised U.S. politicians who he said “have grossly mischaracterized the nature and scope of this case” to tie it to the debate over whether the United States is doing enough to screen refugees.“There is no threat that this man poses or no indication that he’s engaged in any activity since his return two years ago. The only activities that were interrupted were his studies and his work,” defence attorney Ben Galloway said outside the courtroom.U.S. Magistrate Judge Carolyn Delaney ordered him held without bail.It’s not clear how Al-Jayab and Al Hardan met online, although the FBI affidavit describes at least one apparently mutual acquaintance.The criminal complaint against Al-Jayab recounts a series of communications with different people, none of whom is identified. One called “Individual I” is Al Hardan, according to Lauren Horwood, a spokeswoman for the U.S. attorney in Sacramento.Federal authorities say Al-Jayab emigrated from Syria to the United States as a refugee in October 2012, living in Tucson, Arizona, and Milwaukee until November 2013, when he went back overseas to fight.He returned to the United States in January 2014 and lived in Sacramento. He has been a computer science major at a Sacramento community college since last fall.