http://www.thehindu.com/sport/tennis/Federer-defuses-Dimitrov-challenge-to-seal-300th-win/article14013974.ece

A patient Roger Federer weathered a second set storm from Grigor Dimitrov before slapping down the Bulgarian challenger 6-4, 3-6, 6-1, 6-4 to reach the fourth round of the Australian Open and clinch his 300th win in grand slams.Long in the shadow of the Swiss master, Dimitrov played some irresistible tennis to prise a set but was powerless to maintain the intensity under a closed roof at Rod Laver Arena.Federer, however, simply lifted a gear, taming an occasionally wayward forehand before speeding away from the Bulgarian player nicknamed 'Baby Fed'.Capturing an early break in the final set, four-time champion Federer sealed the match with an imperious forehand to set up a clash with another young gun in Belgian David Goffin.Roger Federer was already a long way clear at the top of the list of men with the most wins in Grand Slam singles matches, so becoming the first to 300 almost seemed like a secondary consideration.Federer now is 67 clear of No. 2 Jimmy Connors in Grand Slam singles wins. His aim now is for an 18th major title he hasn’t added to his collection since winning Wimbledon in 2012. He got close last year, losing the finals at Wimbledon and the U.S. Open to No. 1-ranked Novak Djokovic.The 34-year-old Federer improved to 5-0 against Dimitrov, a young Bulgarian with a similar style, including two wins in two weeks. Dimitrov took a set off Federer for the first time in the quarterfinals at the Brisbane International, and did that again in Melbourne.“You’re aware of it I’m a veteran so I,” don’t get distracted, Federer said. “I’ve been fooled too many times when I was a teenager. I hope he’s OK.”Roberta Vinci, who ended Serena Williams’ bid for a calendar-year Grand Slam in 2015 with a shocking semifinal win at the U.S. Open, lost 0-6, 6-4, 6-4 to Anna-Lena Friedsam.Kei Nishikori had some trouble with his wrist, taking a medical timeout and losing the next set before recovering to reach the fourth round at the Australian Open with a 7-5, 2-6, 6-3, 6-4 win Friday over No. 26-seeded Guillermo Garcia-Lopez. He’ll next play 2008 Australian Open finalist Jo-Wilfried Tsonga, who beat fellow Frenchman Pierre-Hugues Herbert 6-4, 7-6 (7), 7-6 (4).Nishikori reached the 2014 U.S. Open final and the quarterfinals at the Australian and French Opens in 2015 before withdrawing from his second—round match at Wimbledon with an injured left leg.Returning to the fourth round at Melbourne Park for the fourth straight year was a confidence booster, and he said the right wrist “actually, it was OK.”“In the first set I was sore but after treatment I felt better,” he said. “I tried to stay tough, concentrated again I played better in last set.”There was a full house on Margaret Court Arena for the match, including a big section of Japanese supporters waving flags, while matches on uncovered outside courts were delayed because of rain. Play finally began on some outdoor courts after more than a six—hour delay, and seven doubles matches were postponed.No. 15 David Goffin beat No. 19 Dominic Thiem 6—1, 3—6, 7—6 (2), 7—5 his first win against a top—20 player at a Grand Slam. He faces a tougher proposition next- Federer.