http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Feeding-the-devout-without-hassles/article13988183.ece

More than a lakh pilgrims are being fed free of cost every day under the TTD’s ‘Nitya Annadanam’ scheme.Incidentally, the programme, also known as ‘Nitya Prasadam’ scheme, is the brain child of former Chief Minister the late N.T. Rama Rao.Initially, more than 2,000 pilgrims were fed a day under the scheme, which was grounded on April 6, 1985. From then on, there was no looking back for the prestigious institution, which, at present, feeds more than a lakh pilgrims daily. The corpus fund of the TTD’s Nitya Annadanam Trust, which runs the scheme, reached a staggering Rs. 660 crore as on December 31, 2015.While around 55,000 pilgrims are offered food at the monolithic Sri Tarigonda Vengamamba Complex (STVC), food packets are supplied to more than 25,000 at the massive Vaikuntam-II complex. Another 8,000 pilgrims are offered free food at the Pilgrim Amenities Complex (PAC). On festive occasions, the number nearly doubles.With the scheme gaining popularity and funds pouring in, the TTD has extended its reach to Tirupati for the benefit of devotees. At present, 8,000 pilgrims are fed at Srinivasam and Vishnu Nivasam complexes in Tirupati, while another 4,000 are offered food at the temple of goddess Padmavathi at Tiruchanoor everyday. In addition, the TTD also provides free food to over 6,000 patients, along with their attendants, at SVRR hospital, BIRRD, SVIMS and maternity hospitals on a regular basis.Around 10 tonnes of rice and six tonnes of vegetables, in addition to one tonne of Bengal gram, are cooked at the massive STV complex at Tirumala everyday. The complex is equipped with four big dining halls, each with a seating capacity of over 1,000 pilgrims. More than 300 regular and 700 outsourced employees, in addition to 200 Srivari seva volunteers, engage themselves in the herculean task of cooking and serving food in two shifts daily at the elephantine complex.Meanwhile, the annual contributions, which had been hovering between Rs. 50 to 55 crore till a couple of years ago, touched Rs. 85 crore in 2014-15. Officials are optimistic that donations are sure to cross the Rs.100 crore mark during the current financial year.Speaking to The Hindu , TTD’s Deputy Executive Officer (Annadanam) S. Venugopal said even though the TTD derived an interest of Rs. 55 crore on its corpus fund, the annual expenditure of the trust is put at more than Rs. 75 crore, which includes salaries and other expenses. An additional Rs. 200 crore towards the corpus will definitely make the trust self-reliant at least for the time being.He added that during his two-and-a-half-year stint, he had never received any complaint with regard to either quality or quantity. “All that I have received is only appreciation and accolades from the pilgrim fraternity,” he said.