http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Festive-Shopping/article13988258.ece

Nothing beats the charm of trying out a dozen new outfits to zero upon the best fit; the joy of rifling through racks of new clothes to pick out the perfect style; the comfort of having an attendant to assist, suggest and even offer advice regarding the latest styles and shades in the market… it is these simple yet most compelling factors that have and always will attract shoppers to brick-and-mortar retail outlets. While stores online and offline offer festival discounts, it is the ambience, the humane touch and the opportunity to socialise that overrides the bother of having to travel to spend time in a retail store. And when it comes to spending for the biggest festive occasion in Andhra, the need to personally check every aspect of the new expensive ensemble is quite vital.Sankranti is the biggest festivity in South, and especially so in Andhra Pradesh. New clothes, gifts, and bhogi pallu figure prominently in the festivities.Sweets in generous quantities are prepared and distributed, families congregate and everyone is gifted new clothes. Children below five years of age are showered with a mixture of flower petals, Jujube berries and coins to ensure their wellbeing, invoke blessings and pray for prosperity for the child. Some families even put up a grand display of dolls very similar to the displays put up during Duserra.Married girls are invited to their maternal home and given gifts and new clothes to signify the everlasting support a girl can expect from her childhood home. The celebration of Makara Sankranti in Andhra takes on a grand hue.And as a run-up to the festival, shopping for clothes, accessories and jewellery is almost ritualistic for householders. The grander the outfit, the better, flaunting the latest style and the most up-to-date fashion is the norm. And accordingly, retailers stock up with the most current trends.Discounts, festive offers, gifts, lucky draws, festive ambience… each shop tries to outdo the next is their bid to attract customers.Adding to the festivities of Sankranti shopping, MVR Mall also celebrates its first anniversary. The five storied mall has announced a plethora of goodies for customers. In addition to bringing in the latest fashions, styles and trends to the Vizag markets, the store also ensures that the stocks are always fresh and replaced regularly. In the jewellery section, the management has special offers to ensure that the customer gets the best deal.Assuring 100% value for money, lowest wastage on jewellery making, lifetime free service on purchased jewellery, hallmark guarantee, and more, the store has announced a special offer of selling gold at the goldsmith's price itself.Furthermore, customers can also avail of the opportunity to win up to 2 kilograms of gold with the special gold scheme. 24 lucky shoppers to be gifted with gold on 12 successive days both the locations of MVR Mall, at Siripuram and Gajuwaka till 15th January 2016. Making shopping a pleasant outing, the store has many small yet significant incentives like valet parking, pleasant ambience, helpful attendants, expansive floors catering to men, women and children - so that the family shopping can be done easily.Call it a smaller version of the Trade Fair in Delhi, or a mega fair by Vizag standards, but the Indian Trade fair being held in Vizag till 10th January at 'Andhra Engineering College' is a fair worth checking out. Spread out in the wide premises of 1.2 lakh feet, the fair has 10 hangars with around 450 stalls. Each pavilion caters to a different aspect like real estate, handicrafts, electronics, textiles, tourism, jute, interiors, even eats and snacks, along with a range of international goods with traders from Afghanistan, Pakistan and Thailand too showcasing their wares. The fair has brought a wide range of goods, home accessories and gadgets in one venue. In this mela, the electronics pavilion was managed by Soundarya. The hangar had about a hundred stalls within showcasing a varied range of electronics and furniture.The MD Mruthynjaya Rao, announced that for every purchase made in the Soundarya hanger, shoppers would receive a guaranteed gift which include 1 kg gold, 10kg silver, 10 Lakhs cash and 10 Singapore trips.Making it easy for the customer, booking facilities, home deliveries, Finance facilities and discounts are also available at the venue itself.Uma Chodavarapu