http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Festivals-first-screens-later/article13990386.ece

In popular Indian cinema, our heroes are larger than life, the heroines have flawless features and our comedians reel out jokes on cue. Heart-wrenching dramatic moments disintegrate into choreographed dance sequences and many romantic scenes seamlessly dissolve into songs in a foreign, and often fancy, location.However, ever so often, the Indian film industry produces some gems that not only wow audiences in the country, but outside as well.It is no mean feat for a film to contend with a hundred other foreign entries and emerge victorious. It speaks volumes about the directorial style, creates a buzz around the film and sets expectations for the audience.Many such films, irrespective of their box office performance, make news simply for their success at festivals — think The Lunchbox, Margarita with a Straw, Ship of Theseus and I am Kalam.This trend has caught on in Kollywood as well.“I’ve always been interested in showing our films to international audiences. The easiest way is through the festival circuit, a big marketing platform for films that aren’t big enough to be in the mainstream race,” says Vetrimaaran, who co-produced Kaaka Muttai and directed Visaranai, both of which created ripples in film festivals.“ Kuttram Kadithal had no established names among the cast and crew. We thought an immediate release would be a major challenge,” says director G. Bramma. His film, which was screened at 11 festivals before its release and won awards at three, bagged the National Award for Best Feature Film in Tamil in 2015.However, he adds that the decision to premiere at the Zimbabwe International Film Festival was happenstance. The film, made keeping commercial factors in mind, was always intended for theatrical release.“Being selected at festivals doesn’t mean a movie will work well commercially. Mainstream audiences and filmmakers don’t enjoy the same sort of film,” says Kaaka Muttai director M. Manikandan. His Kutrame Thandanai has already been screened at the Mumbai Film Festival and the International Film Festival of Kerala. “We waited a year for Kaaka Muttai’s commercial release. We can’t do the same for this film. Ultimately, it depends on the producers, on how long they can hold out and wait for returns on investment.” The journey from festivals to the mainstream is rarely easy. Hari Viswanath’s Radiopetti, which won an Audience Award at the Busan International Film Fest, and was the only Tamil film screened in the Indian Panorama section at IFFI 2015 in Goa, is yet to find distributors in Tamil Nadu, despite all the international appreciation. The film, about a 75-year-old man and his beloved old valve radio set that goes missing, boasts no commercial elements — there are no comedy tracks, songs or dance sequences.Radiopetti, says Hari, was meant for the festival circuit, and adds, “I don’t know if this will be released here in theatres, but we are in talks with international distributors.” His only chance to gauge a Tamil audience’s reaction to the film was at the ongoing Chennai International Film Festival, where it was screened recently.“Making a film is easy; promoting it and taking it to the theatres is more difficult,” says Hari. Approval from the international festival circuit gives films with fresh perspectives and cinematic styles the much-deserved push, when it comes to commercial release. Then, the publicity and promotion budget comes down, but enough people get talking about it on social networking sites and the media. “In this frenzied era of producing over 200 films a year, getting more than two weeks of pre-release publicity isn’t possible for most films. But, when a movie is celebrated at a film festival, it gets at least two months of publicity,” explains Vetrimaaran.The advantages don’t stop there. “If a film gets selected in one festival, it also gets visibility in other festivals in the same region,” says Bramma, while Manikandan points out that there is a market abroad to buy Indian films. But, we are yet to tap into this market. Kaaka Muttai, reveals Vetrimaaran, collected more that $150,000 in Hong Kong alone.Irrespective of their reason to hit the festival trail, these directors are creating a name not only for themselves, but also for the industry they come from. Along the way, they also set new standards for aspiring filmmakers, who wish to deviate from hero-driven commercial potboilers. A new trend is emerging, but as Vetrimaaran says, where it goes from here depends on the sensibilities of the viewers.