http://www.thehindu.com/news/international/Fierce-critic-Trump-concedes-Obama%E2%80%99s-tears-were-real/article13986413.ece

Republican presidential frontrunner Donald Trump has said he disagrees with Barack Obama on gun control measures but conceded that the United States President’s tears while talking of steps to tackle gun violence were real.Mr. Trump, a fierce Obama critic, said the fact that he disagreed with the U.S. President on his gun control measures did not mean that his heart was in the wrong place.Probably, he means well“I think he probably means well,” Mr. Trump was quoted as saying by Fox News.He was reacting to Mr. Obama’s speech on Tuesday announcing new executive actions on guns, including narrowing the so-called “gun-show loophole” on background checks.When Obama turned emotionalWiping away tears as he spoke of children killed in Connecticut in 2012, Mr. Obama unveiled a series of executive actions on guns, including expanding mandatory background checks for some private sales.The Republican frontrunner said what the President got wrong was “the concept” behind his efforts, not his emotion. Mr. Trump said Obama’s tears were real.He was sincere“I actually think he was sincere, I’ll probably go down about 5 points in the polls by saying that, but I think he was sincere,” Mr. Trump said.But the billionaire real-estate mogul has reiterated his frequent position that the answer to mass shootings is having more people with guns in the room, not fewer.Turns to Hillary-bashing againAnd, looking ahead to the presidential race, Mr. Trump attacked other Democrats and frontrunner Hillary Clinton alongside Mr. Obama.“His idea is just taking chunks and chunks out of the Second Amendment until we don’t have a Second Amendment anymore, and people need protection,” Mr. Trump said.‘Hillary is worse than Obama’“Hillary Clinton is, I think, worse than Obama on the issue, frankly, she wants to take everyone’s gun away,” he said.Later, Mr. Trump said Mr. Obama should take action to protect Americans through legislation, not executive action.