http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Fields-in-Ramdurg-to-get-water/article13978111.ece

Farmers of chronically drought-prone Ramdurg, one of the most backward taluks in the district and the State, will soon realise their four-decades-long dream to have access water to irrigate their agricultural land, as Chief Minister Siddaramaiah will lay the foundation stone to commence construction work on the ambitious Veerabhadreshwar Lift Irrigation scheme on Monday.The scheme aims at utilising 2.5 tmcft of water from the Ghataprabha in the Krishna basin during the monsoon to provide irrigation for kharif crops on 17,377 hectares (ha) in Ramdurg taluk and Mudhol taluk of Bagalkot district. The government accorded administrative sanction for Rs.544 crore and released Rs.50 crore on January 21, 2015. Karnataka Neeravari Nigam Limited (KNNL), Irrigation (North), had invited tenders with punitive clause and the contract was allotted to the Hubballi-based D.R.N. Infrastructure.The works would commence next month and are scheduled to be completed in two years’ time.The Chief Engineer of KNNL, Irrigation (North), K.F. Hulkund, said here on Saturday that agriculture in Ramdurg taluk was fully rain-dependent.Deficient monsoonThough there are several irrigation tanks in the taluk, they remain dry for long periods of the year due to deficient monsoon in any given season and entire taluk remains drought-prone, making even a single harvest in a year a difficult proposition.Salient featuresThe scheme intends to lift 2.5 tmcft of water from the Ghataprabha during the monsoon at Chikkur tanda of Mudhol taluk, where the river is in surplus with rain water every monsoon.Of this, 2.4 tmc ft. would be utilised for irrigation and 0.10 tmc ft. to augment 10 water tanks. In all, 17,377 ha of farm lands spread over 34 villages would be benefitted by the project — 15,697 ha in 30 villages of Ramdurg taluk and the remaining in Mudhol taluk.Of the Rs. 544 crore sanctioned, Rs. 406.25 crore would be utilised for construction of head works, and tenders for construction of canals at an estimated cost of Rs.2.35 crore were at the approval stage.Villages to be benefited by VLI scheme are Ramdurg taluk - Venkatapur, Guttigoli, Gudagamanal, Hoskoti, Budni, Tondikatti, Bijaguppi, Kullur, Timmapur, Udapudi, Bhidaki, Rokkadakatti, Panchagaon, Bannur Tanda, Rampur Tanda, Daddibhavi Tanda, M. Chandargi, Kesargoppa, Totagatti, Sidnal, K. Chandargi, Godachi, Gudagoppa, Chikkoppa, Hirekoppa, Murakatal, Bannuru, Salahalli, Aribenchi Tanda and Obalapur Tanda; Mudhol talulk (1,680 ha) – Killa Hoskoti, Dadanatti, Kanasageri and Mallapur.