http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Fierce-battle-in-the-offing-for-sahitya-parishat-president-post/article14023829.ece

With at least three strong candidates in the fray, the election to the post of the district president of Kannada Sahitya Parishat is going to be fierce battle this time.The previous two elections did not have any competition with incumbent parishat president Mallikarjun Yendigeri getting elected unopposed after emerging as unanimous choice.But this time, other aspirants decided to oppose Mr. Yendigeri’s candidature.“This is a democratically-ruled organisation and all the time, only one person cannot get elected,” said Mallikarjun Brahangimath, one of the candidates who has the support of several writers and pro-Kannada activists of the district. He claimed that Mr. Yendigeri had, during his first term, announced that he will not contest for a second term. However, after he promised that he would work to get the 79th Kannada Sahitya Sammelan for Vijayapura, the members allowed him to contest for the second term and elected him.“Now, it is his moral obligation to leave the field open for others to contest. There are others who are better administrators,” said another aspirant Shivananda Manganavar.They said that all their efforts to convince Mr. Yendigeri to withdraw his candidature have failed as he was firm on contesting for a third term. Those who are opposing Mr. Yendigeri have a common complaint that he had failed to keep his word that will not contest this time and that he holds a firm grip over the district unit by not allowing his opponents have a say in its functioning.They also accused him of not disclosing the accounts of funds released for the Kannada Sahitya Sammelan held here.Meanwhile, both contenders, Mr. Brahangimath and Mr. Manganavar, held press conference along with writers and supporters to vent their ire against Mr. Yendigeri. However, Mr. Yendigeri has not used any public platform to defend himself or silence his critics.February 1 is the last date for withdrawing nomination papers and it would be interesting to see who remains in the fray.