http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/sport/Fighting-corruption-is-at-the-top-of-MSLTA%E2%80%99s-agenda/article14008107.ece

Maharashtra tennis’ brush with match-fixing problems, exposed by revelations about an approach made towards Novak Djokovic, is of a different nature. Three years ago, during an AITA under-14 tournament in Pune in 2013, a tennis umpire reported to the State association about an offer from a parent. Investigations revealed that the parent had enquired if close line call decisions could go in his daughter’s favour. The umpire would benefit if he agreed.Maharashtra State Lawn Tennis Association (MSLTA), the State body overseeing the sport, banned the parent from attending any tournament conducted by it for one year. “The message went out to other parents. The child was not punished for the parent’s ambition. Due to the timely reporting by the umpire, we nipped the problem at the first stage,” revealed Sunder Iyer, MSLTA secretary, in a chat with The Hindu from Pune.Dealing with pushy parents is the main problem, he said. “Tennis parenting sessions are conducted at different districts in the State, where Dr Vece Paes (father of Leander Paes and sports medicine expert) addresses parents on permitting their children to grow up the natural way,” he said.The State body will be conducting a workshop next month in Kolhapur. The previous one was held in Solapur, apart from Aurangabad and Nashik.The MSLTA secretary said, “Now that fixing allegations have come out in the open, this topic will be taken up in tennis parenting sessions. Doping in sport is another serious issue discussed. Teenagers and parents, who escort their children to events, need to be made aware about response to situations in case any approach is made. Awareness in districts among players, coaches and parents, more than cities where access to information is greater, is our focus.”Iyer expressed surprise about the alleged offer made to Djokovic at a major competition. “Top players are usually not approached at Majors. People interested in contacting players for illegal activity will choose a smaller event at a remote location. The $10,000 ITF events held away from cities are more likely to be the place where such approaches are made.”Live scoringLive scoring is another aspect he touched upon. “ATP makes it mandatory for organisers to arrange live scorings. Betting is discouraged when scoring is live; patterns can be tracked by the Tennis Intelligence Unit. Transactions take place when scoring is disrupted due to technical problems like connectivity. Players are not permitted to use the telephone when events they play in are telecast live. The delay in seconds between the real action and telecast is the time when bets are placed,” he said.ATP rules stipulate that organisers arrange backup for live scoring as one of the pre-conditions before allotting events, explained Iyer. Tour regulars do not engage in suspicious activity, he pointed out. “Semi-retired pros, out to make a fast buck, get involved. They don’t care about the damage to the sport. Fixing the result of matches is rare; more likely a player may drop a set to a lower-ranked opponent, then come back and win the match.”