http://www.thehindu.com/features/kids/Fight-to-the-finish/article14024668.ece

It was a moment charged with suspense. The tension that hung in the air was so thick that you could have cut it with a knife. V.Vasudeva Reddy and A. Manish, students of Teja Vidyalaya, Kodad, had pressed the buzzer to answer a question that proved to be the subtle line between victory and defeat. Now, there was no turning back. All eyes in the audience bore into the youngsters. Even before the quiz master, V.V. Ramanan, could finish asking the final question, which was about the famous Lingaraj temple in Bhubaneswar, the duo sealed their victory, shocking the team from St.John’s Public School, Gannavaram, that had thus far, been in the lead. V. Vasudeva Reddy and A. Manish won the seniors category (Std. VII to Std. IX) of the 16 edition of The Hindu Young World Quiz Competition that was held in Vijayawada on January 20. This time, while the participants from Teja Vidyalaya won the regional finals, Md. Aziz-ur-Rehman and R. Karthik of St. John’s Public School, Gannavaram, and Neha Yarlagadda and Phani Sai Naren of Tripura English Medium School (TEMS), Rajahmundry, who finished second and third, respectively, put up a spirited show, and impressed the audience by answering questions on a wide range of topics. Teja Vidyalaya, Kodad, St. John’s Public School, Gannavaram, and TEMS qualified for the final six from the 189 teams that participated in the preliminaries.The junior category (Std IV to Std.VI) witnessed a show of brilliance among six teams, which made it to the finals from 113 teams. Once again, students of Teja Vidyalaya, Kodad, G. Sriram Reddy and T. Pavan, bagged the first prize. Pavan Kumar Reddy and Nehanth of Teja Talent School and K.S.V. Harthik and V. Lasya of TEMS won the second and third prizes.The winners received trophies, bicycles and certificates while the runners up also received trophies and certificates. No one left the venue disappointed — the teams that didn’t get through to the finals were awarded goodie bags and participation certificates in recognition of their efforts.The prizes and certificates were given away by the chief guest, Gautham Sawang, Vijayawada City Police Commissioner.SponsorsThe quiz was sponsored by the Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT) and powered by the State Bank of India (SBI). Firefox was the national gift partner and Kokuyo Camlin, the goodie partner. Ilapuram Travels, Mithra Honda, Kottakkal Arya Vaidyasala, Modern Super Market, Sahiti Prachuranalu, Sweet Magic, Ashok Book Centre and Efftronics were regional sponsors.