http://www.thehindu.com/features/education/college-and-university/Find-the-right-engineering-college/article13990373.ece

Pursuing an engineering degree and filled with questions about the course? Stupidsid.com will come to your rescue. Established by a group of four engineering students, the website offers study material and a study approach for engineering students and also for those wishing to pursue their engineering master’s abroad.“Stupidsid.com is all about helping students find the right fit and make the right decisions. We upload question papers of examinations and provide solutions to them as well. We have several features by which students can make informed decisions,” one of the cofounders Sumeet Jain said.The website’s unique college comparer feature enlists engineering colleges and provides all necessary information about the college, courses offered, its ranking, student community, comments from former students, etc.Students can also check out question papers, cutoff marks and syllabi of engineering colleges across the country. Although the website does not offer any counselling services, the answers to the question papers are crowdsourced through students and moderated by a subject expert.“We also focus on students interested in pursuing their M.S. degree abroad and have special features to cater to this category. University reviews, course descriptions, visa guidelines, expenditure are some of them,” Jain said.PROFILE YOURSELFIt is essential for students studying abroad to work and maintain a profile, on whose basis their application to any university is considered. Stupidsid.com has a unique feature which helps an aspirant to upload his/her profile and compare it with others. Not only does this help students to improve on it, it also acts as a guide to aspirants.“We currently have a database of over 60,000 student profiles which we students have created on our website over the past four years. Student profiles also include information such as which universities they applied to and where they were accepted in. This helps aspirants make realistic and correct choices,” said Jain.The makers of the website have also forayed into mobile apps and have launched the Yocket app which focuses especially on pursuing M.S. in the U.S.A. and packs in extra features like roommate finder.“Once students get accepted at any particular university, they can get to know who their batchmates will be and hunt for potential roommates through the app. Currently, it is available for the Android platform, we will be launching it for Apple users soon,” said Jain.