http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/Finally-it-is-time-for-BIFFes/article13984304.ece

Though the eighth edition of the Bengaluru International Film Festival (BIFFes) was delayed, there is some reason to cheer for. Unlike previous editions, this year’s event – slated to be held from January 29 to February 4 – will be held in one venue. This means that film buffs need not run between screens scattered in different parts of the city to catch their favourites.The screening this year will be in 11 screens in PVR Cinemas, Orion Mall, Rajajinagar. There are 170 films from over 60 countries across the globe to choose from. Simultaneously, cine buffs of Mysuru can also watch the films in four screens of INOX Cinemas, Mall of Mysuru. Curtains go up on the BIFFes on January 28, for the first time, in front of the Vidhana Soudha.Valedictory in MysuruValedictory and award presentation programme will be held at Royal Palace, Mysuru, on February 4 .This edition has many other firsts. Though it has always been a tradition to open the film festival with a foreign classic film, the 8 BIFFes starts with Raam Reddy’s debut Kannada film Thithi, which won two awards at the Locarno International Film Festival.This edition will also see documentary films of 25-hour duration screened. Films such as Anthony Gonsalves, The Music Legend, a 58-minute documentary by Ashok Rane, The Magic of Making on artist K.G. Subrahamanyam by Goutam Ghosh, Adwait Sangeet, the first ever documentary on renowned vocalist Pandit Rajan and Sajan Mishra of Benaras gharana, besides biopics on Girish Kasaravalli, Adoor Gopalakrishnan will be screened in this section. Istvan Szabo, Hungarian screen writer and film and opera director, and Nils Malmros, a Danish film director and screenwriter, are figuring in the director’s retrospective sections this time. At the same time, connoisseurs of Mrinal Sen and Adoor Gopalakrishnan can revisit their favourite film makers’ classics in the vintage section. There is a bouquet of classics made by Jafar Panahi (Iran), Jia Zhang Ke (China), Hou Hsiao-Hsien (Japan), Emin Alper (Turkey), Jacques Audiard (France), Christian Petzold (Germany), Nanni Moretti (Italy) and others. Mexico, Iran and Turkey are country focus of this edition. Films by yesteryear artiste B. Saroja Devi will figure in the artist retrospective and tributes will be paid to Kannada film personalities – Siddalingaiah and K.S.L. Swamy – who died last year.