http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/Final-report-on-Kolleru-likely-by-month-end/article14006857.ece

The four-member working group appointed by the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) to study the ecological impact of downsizing the Kolleru Lake is likely to submit its final report to the NBWL by month-end.Professor Raman Sukumar of the Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, led the group which conducted an aerial survey of the lake and a public meeting at Kolletikota on December 10, 2015. Experts from the Wildlife Institute of India and Special Chief Secretary (Forest Department) Ashwin Kumar Parida were also members of the expert group that held discussions with the officials and the Collectors of Krishna and West Godavari districts as part of a two-day field visit to the lake. “We will submit our final report to the NBWL in January. We have heard voices of all the stakeholders, including people of Krishna and West Godavari districts and the officials concerned. We will come up with a balanced report,” Prof. Raman Sukumar had said at Kolletikota village on December 10.In 2015, the State government passed a resolution to downsize the Kolleru Lake, a Ramsar Conservation Site and India’s largest fresh water lake, from +5 contour to +3 contour. Since the proposal would pose a major threat to the existing Important Bird area which falls in the contour +3 area, the State government would need permission of the National Board for Wildlife to implement the proposal.Critical wildlife habitatThe expert committee led by P.A. Azeez, Director of Salim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Natural History, had strongly opposed the proposal of downsizing Kolleru Lake in 2011. “Reduction of the present sanctuary is not a viable solution for various socio-economic and ecological issues confronting the Lake Kolleru, although it may release a large chunk of lands for other use. It will lead to destruction of a very valuable ecologically important area for short sighted benefits,” Dr. Azeez had concluded in a study report submitted to the Ministry of Environment and Forest. However, the expert committee has suggested that the area falling under+3 contour may be declared a “critical wildlife habitat” and the +3 to +5 area as a “buffer or conservation area.”