http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Kochi/Firemen-gear-up-for-summer-challenge/article14001383.ece

Adding men and machines to its ranks, the Fire and Rescue Department is gearing up to meet the summer challenge.The dry weather, increasing atmospheric temperature and the resultant drying up of undergrowth in vacant plots have increased the fire risk.The fire fighting infrastructure has been strengthened by adding eight vehicles to the fire stations located in Ernakulam. One vehicle each has been allotted to the stations at Gandhi Nagar, Thrikkakara, Aluva, Perumbavoor, Koothattukulam, North Paravur and Mattanchery. This is in addition to the existing vehicles in these units. Three more vehicles are on their way to Ernakulam, said R. Prasad, Divisional Fire Officer, Ernakulam.The infrastructure facilities would be further fortified before March as additional funds would be released by then. More fire tenders and equipment would be procured and supplied to various units, he said.The current fiscal also witnessed an increase in the strength of the Fire and Rescue personnel. Nearly one-fourth of the new recruits have been deployed to Ernakulam Division. This year, 836 persons joined the force after completing their training at the Fire Academy in Thrissur. Of the new recruits, 271 persons were posted in various units in the division, said Mr. Prasad.Even while going ahead with the infrastructure projects, sky lifts are yet to reach Kochi. Such units are required for rescue and evacuation operations from high-rises. The sky lifts have to be procured and distributed from the headquarters, said Mr. Prasad.Water storageThe Divisional Officer said the stations have water storage facilities for meeting fire risks. Tanks of capacity ranging between 50,000 litres to one lakh litres are ready in the units. Firemen have identified and verified the availability of water from ponds and water bodies in the region. Moreover, the Fire Department has tied up with the fire fighting units of various public sector firms for making water and other resources available for facing a crisis situation, he said.The department is also equipped to handle chemical fire. It would be mostly water foams and water mist that would be used in such exigencies. Chemicals used for extinguishing fire have also been stocked, he said.