http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Visakhapatnam/Fisherfolk-don-blue-coveralls-for-IFR/article14026446.ece

Fisherfolk are the unpaid sailors of the Indian Navy, Navy officials have said, and as patriotic citizens have been extending all cooperation to the government, Visakhapatnam South MLA Vasupalli Ganesh Kumar said.“As a member of the fisherfolk community I feel very proud that the Indian Navy officials have entrusted us this responsibility of being the face of the city to welcome the delegates to the International Fleet Review 2016. We have willing given up our livelihoods to help the development of the Port,” he noted before flagging off a fleet of 56 fishing boats that have been pressed into service as auxiliary vessels for the warships at anchorage participating in the IFR 2016.The International Fleet Review is a matter of pride for the city, State and the nation and it required the wholehearted support of every committed citizen, the MLA said and added that it was but natural that the fishermen would be the first to extend their support.The boats selected for the navy auxiliary service have been repainted and given a makeover with seats provided for transport of personnel covered by a uniform colour awning.Boat crew have also been provided uniforms. The Indian Navy has chartered the fishing boats for the fortnight and allocated one medium size and one small tender to each of the participating ships.The ship’s captain can requisition either the small tender or the bigger one depending upon the requirement and the tenders and their crew would be on standby at the boat round-the-clock.The crew have also been tutored on etiquette and language to be used while interacting with the Navy personnel and officials, one of the tender operators explained. The government is spending Rs. 93 lakh for ensuring that all the fishing boats in the Fishing Harbour are given a uniform yellow colour.The Chief Minister has allocated Rs. 28 lakh to be paid as compensation for fisherfolk who would not be able to go out during the IFR at Rs. 400 per day, the MLA said. P.C. Appa Rao, Abdul Chinna Rehman, Gangamma, D. Ramana, K. Vasu, Simhadri Prasad, Majji Trinadh Rao, Behera Venkataratnam, M. Srinu, Jerripotula Prasad and Pallisetty Tataji among others were present.The government is spending Rs. 93 lakh for ensuring that all the fishing boats in the Fishing Harbour are given a uniform yellow colour