http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Fit-is-hit/article13984496.ece

Coming from a modelling background, Rajneesh Duggal has always been conscious about his fitness. The model-turned-actor has been working on his body religiously and sticking to a complete vegetarian diet. The results are there for all to see – lean, muscular and without any flab on his physique.A runner-up in Mr. International, the actor has dabbled in films but without the lady luck smiling on him. But Rajneesh’s focus on his physique helped him emergea winner in Khatron Ke Khiladi 5.Not the one to get disheartened by dismal performances of his films at box office, Rajneesh is at it again. The actor is ready with his latest film Direct Ishq. In the city to promote his film, Rajneesh said, “It is not just the body. Fitness is about the complete entity covering the mind, body and soul.” Nowadays, Rajneesh is into yoga and functional training. “This is the right approach. It is first sorting the inside and then coming to the outside. Fitness starts with yoga, the breathing exercise, healthy eating, good sleep and sufficient training,” says Rajneesh.Since he is a vegetarian, he has included sprouts, pulses, yoghurt and plenty of water in his diet. Post 9 p.m., he does not consume any sweets or munch.The fitness enthusiast even carries a fitness kit while travelling that includes a roller for the abs and other accessories.As a model, the challenge he faced was his broad shoulders as they would not fit into the designer’s clothes meant for leaner frames. He says, “I tried and cut down on weight lifting which now makes me look less stiff and now I am into yoga, push ups, crunches and few other physical exercises that makes me feel and appear more agile and athletic,” says Rajneesh, who has been regularly doing weight training.Rajneesh works out through the year. “Even if I don’t workout for two months, I feel lucky that my body doesn’t get less fit. But, it’s all about one’s own body weight suspended in air,” he says.The actor adds, “Every day one needs to work out for at least 30-45 minutes because while doing so, the body releases happy enzymes and peps one up. Who knows at a later stage you need to support your aged parents. For that you need to be fit! Therefore, workout leads to happiness,” he adds.