http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Five-km-run-to-mark-National-Youth-Day/article13992916.ece

The district unit of Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) and the Department of Youth Empowerment and Sports will organise a five-km run on the National Youth Day to mark the birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda on Tuesday.Addressing presspersons here on Saturday, Basrur Rajeev Shetty, chairman of the district unit of IRCS, said that nearly 3,000 college students were expected to participate in the run.It would begin from the Town Hall and pass through Brahmagiri Circle, Bannanje Circle, City Bus Stand Road, Kalsank, Naga Temple Road, Maruthi Veethika, Head Post Office Road, Kavi Muddana Road, Diana Circle and Court Road.It would culminate at the Mahatma Gandhi district stadium. The theme of the run will be ‘Udupi Running: I will run to save life’. The main objective of the run was to create awareness about road safety, substance abuse, HIV/AIDS, giving first aid during accidents and undertaking relief operations during disasters.Students will hold placards on these topics during the run.The first 500 students participating in the run would be given t-shirts and caps.PrizesPrizes would also be given to those who stood first, second and third in the run. Drinking water, first-aid and ambulance facilities would be available.R. Vishal, Deputy Commissioner, would inaugurate the run at 8.30 a.m. Vinay Kumar Sorake, Urban Development Minister, and K. Abhaychandra Jain, Minister of State for Sports, Youth Empowerment and Fisheries, would be present at the inaugural function of National Youth Day at the Mahatma Gandhi District Stadium at 9.30 a.m.After the inaugural function, K. Annamalai, Superintendent of Police, would deliver a lecture on road safety.This would be followed by a demonstration on first-aid to be given after road accidents by Kumar D.L.S, Mr. Shetty said.Roshan Kumar Shetty, District Youth Empowerment and Sports Officer, said that the youth week would be celebrated from January 12 to 19.A district-level elocution competition, rural sports meet and other competitions would be held throughout the week. The intention was to make the youth aware of the life and achievements of Swami Vivekananda, he said.T. Chandrashekar, treasurer of district unit of IRCS, was present.3,000 college students are expected to participate inthe event