http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Five-revellers-electrocuted-in-East-Godavari/article13976941.ece

Five youths were electrocuted while fixing the flexes of their favourite film heroes on the eve of New Year in East Godavari district.According to East Godavari SP Ravi Prakash, two youths died on the spot and four others were injured at Vadisaleru in Rangampeta mandal and in the second incident at Maredupaka village of Mandapeta mandal, three died on the spot and two others were injured.According Ravindra, Sub-Divisional Police Officer, Ramachandrapuram, the Maredupaka incident took place around 1.30 a.m.Four youths, unmindful of HT wires, climbed an electric pole and tried to tie a 25-feet flex of film hero Mahesh Babu. Lavu Prasad, 19, came in contact with the wire and was electrocuted. Sappada Naresh,20, son of a farm hand, and Srirangam Durga Madhavi Prasad, 17, an assistant to a mason, also died on the spot.V. Srinivas and K. Mahesh, who were seriously injured, were shifted to a private hospital at Mandapeta.“There is a ban on flexis without permission. The SP of East Godavari is serious about implementing the High Court orders strictly,” said Mr. Ravindra. At Vadisaleru in Rangampeta mandal under Peddapuram police station limits, fans of hero Pavan Kalyan tried to tie a 20-feet flex between two electric poles on the main road but they did not notice HT wires. Gunnavarapu Veera Venkata Varaprasad, 18, and Janyam Sateesh (18) died on the spot.The three others, who tried to bring them down, sustained burns. The three were admitted to GSL Medical College Hospital at Rajanagaram and were discharged on Friday evening.V. Srinivas and K. Mahesh, who were seriously injured, were shifted to a private hospital at Mandapeta.“There is a ban on flexes without permission. The SP of East Godavari is serious about implementing the High Court orders strictly,” said Mr. Ravindra.At Vadisaleru in Rangampeta mandal under Peddapuram police station limits, fans of hero Pavan Kalyan tried to tie a 20-feet flex between two electric polls on the main road but they did not notice HT wires.Gunnavarapu Veera Venkata Varaprasad, 18, and Janyam Sateesh (18) died on the spot. The three others, who tried to bring them down, sustained burns. The three were admitted to GSL Medical College Hospital at Rajanagaram and were discharged on Friday evening.Anaparthi MLA Nallamilli Ramakrishna Reddy, Zilla Parishad vice-chairman P. Nalinikanth and others visited the hospital.The MLA complained that he had reported about shifting of the live wires to the Transco from the main road several times but no action was taken.