http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Mangalore/Flower-show-draws-a-large-crowd-to-Kadri-Park/article14018420.ece

One thing that makes the Kadri Park flower show different this time is the amount of space; the show is not just restricted to a corner of the park.There are stalls spread over one half of the park. If one is not interested in them, one can walk through the inner circle of the park to see dolphins, peacocks, elephants and fish made of flowers and vegetables.A large number of people visited Kadri Park on Sunday morning for the four-day flower festival and food festival, which began on Saturday. While the flower show is at the Kadri Park, the food festival is in the Deer Park. Park Road that lies in between the Kadri Park and the Deer Park has temporarily been closed for putting up a stage for rendering cultural programmes under the Karavali Utsav for four days. The only hitch to people visiting the show is the distance they have to walk as traffic movement on Park Road has been barred between Dinky Dine Restaurant and the Circuit House.While those coming from Padua school have to park their vehicles near Dinky Dine Restaurant, those coming from the Circuit House side should park their vehicles on the Circuit House premises and walk to the two venues.An entrance fee of Rs. 10 for an adult and Rs. 5 for a child is being collected for the flower show.The first few stalls of the flower show are those related to saplings of jackfruit and other plants brought from nurseries in Mulky, Puttur and other parts of the district. There is one stall that sells organic manure. There are stalls selling agriculture equipment for tilling, sowing, cutting weeds and also climbing arecanut trees.The section related to kitchen and terrace gardening has been drawing a good number of visitors. Among the things that have drawn attention is a model by a Bengaluru-based firm of growing vegetables and flowers using water. Called as “Hydroponic” way of growing plants using water mixed with mineral nutrients, the firm’s sales promoter said that people can grow any type of vegetables and flowers using this technique.