http://www.thehindu.com/features/education/Focus-on-quality-education/article13977016.ece

N oted educationist and vice chairman of the first Higher Education Council of Kerala K. N. Panikkar is among those who view the agenda of the upcoming Global Education Meet of the State Government with concern. He shares with The Hindu Education Plus his views on the meet and its possible consequences in the higher education sector. Experts from the interview…On the proposed Global Education Meet (GEM)There is no danger in organising a global meeting for education because getting together and discussing the possibilities of education is always welcome. The meet itself is not a problem but it is the agenda that is the problem. We don’t know much about the actual agenda except a notification given by the Higher Education Council of Kerala (HEC). The indication is that the government plans to establish special educational zones on the lines of the special economic zones.On the proposed Academic City and Higher Education ZonesThe question is what would these special zones consist of? It is said that the zones would be modelled on the Dubai Academic City. I don’t know whether the government has made an assessment of such academic cities or education zones in the world, including the one in Dubai. I have seen the Dubai Academic City at the time of its inception and have had discussions with those running it. Now, we know that there are lot of problems with the education zone in Dubai. Some universities have already withdrawn from there and others are finding it difficult to get enough students.When you take Dubai as a model it would be pertinent to view the educational differences between Dubai and Kerala. In Dubai those who were going out of the country to study belonged to the top class of society. Kerala on the other hand had a very advanced education system. So if an academic city or a special zone is set up the question is which class of students would be attracted to that. Who would be able to afford that? When such a centre is set up the standards have to be world class and naturally the expenses are going to be high.Secondly, Dubai has immense infrastructural facilities; they have invested a lot of money in the academic city. Would Kerala be able to provide such infrastructure? Or would it be another slum which would not attract anybody from anywhere? The Dubai model does not call for people to invest in infrastructure; that is already provided. Can Kerala match that?On the need for improving quality of education locallyWhat is really needed is to improve the quality of education here, locally. It cannot be an education system which caters to a few people. It is clear that what is needed on a priority basis is the improvement of Kerala’s undergraduate system. And it is only from there that people can branch off to higher levels of learning.Then comes the question of ‘embedding.’ It is said that the special education zones would be embedded in the university system through appropriate legislation. It is not clear at the moment what such embedding actually means and how it would translate into action on the ground.There is another problem; under the Dubai model whoever is running a course can repatriate the entire surplus or profit back to their own country. And there is no tax. So you end up providing facilities – land, building etc. — as a subsidy to those coming from outside. There are some of the quite objectionable things about the GEM agenda.By saying this one is not against private enterprise in education or against autonomy, Kerala’s education has developed because of private investment. But private investment should not be unbridled. There should be an amount off social control which would decide the direction that such private investment would take in matters of education.On the need for controls and a sense of directionWhen you invite universities or firms to set up centres and courses here there is also the inherent risk that they would end up deciding what type of courses they offer to prospective students. This cannot be allowed and there have to be controls in place. But one is not clear whether under the proposed arrangement of special zones or academic cities such social controls are possible at all.A global meet should be on the basis of serious discussions among the academics in the state and experts from outside before decisions are taken. It is not clear whether such discussions have taken place. Ideally before any global meet one should be clear as to what type of education one needs for Kerala. If we want a combination of private and publicly managed institutions what would be the exact role of private managements and funding.Only then should the focus shift to agencies from abroad. Even then the possibilities for university to university interactions should be explored. That should be preferred to the setting up of special zones or cities where anyone can have a free run.