http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/Fog-makes-a-comeback/article14005601.ece

Dense fog returned to haunt travellers n Monday with Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) witnessing nearly 100 flights and more than 40 trains being affected. The met department has forecast foggy mornings for the next couple of days as well. Visibility started dropping at the airport at 4.30 a.m. on Monday, leading to low visibility procedures being put in place. After 8 a.m., general visibility dropped to below 50 metres even as the Runway Visual Range (the distance at which a pilot can see runway markings) hovered between 100 and 200 metres at the third runway 29/11. Visibility started improving after 10 a.m. with low visibility procedures being terminated at 10.22 a.m. While there were no flight diversions or cancellations, nearly 100 flights were delayed. On Monday, 47 flights landed at the IGI airport using the Instrument Landing System (ILS), which guides pilots to land during poor visibility, while 39 landings took place using Category IIIB ILS and eight took place using Category II ILS. “Runway 29/11 was closed for operations between 7 a.m. and 10 a.m. as the visibility dipped to zero,” said Dr. R.K. Jenamani, Director-in-Charge, IGIA Met unit. He said that the moisture in the atmosphere, coupled with low day temperature had resulted in the foggy conditions. Similar conditions were prevalent in Haryana, Rajasthan and Punjab.“Monday was the fourth day in a row when we witnessed the maximum temperature below 20 degree Celsius. We expect some clouding on Tuesday. The spell of fog is going to continue for at least another two days,” Dr. Jenamani said.As the Met department has forecast rain for Tuesday, Dr. Jenamani said that it will result in more moisture in the atmosphere — which helps in the formation of fog. “We expect fog early in the morning on Tuesday, but there will be respite by 8 a.m. or 9 p.m.,” he said.Train operations to and from Delhi were also hampered due to fog with 25 trains being cancelled, at least 30 reported to be running late and 12 trains being rescheduled by the Northern Railway.Most trains were delayed by two to eight hours with some like the Swatantra Senani Express running over 12 hours late.