http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Folk-flavour-for-fete/article14020716.ece

Young Ramshi Pattuvam used to listen intently to the traditional songs that the women who came to work in the fields sang. He caught some of the words and joined them in singing once in a while. By the time he was in his teens, he knew what he wanted to do with his life.“The Muslim community has a very different tradition of singing compared to these folk songs. I was attracted to the typical rhythm of these songs. My mother also used to sing these songs,” says Ramshi, a folk singer who has trained five teams for the folk song competition at this year’s State school arts festival.The folk song competition is one of the unique events at the fest; each of the songs sung here are distinct from the other and represents different communities. Most of the songs are no longer sung by anyone in these communities and hardly any competitor here belongs to the community, the song of which they are singing.The songs are all meant for specific purposes. For instance, the one sung by the team from GHSS Naduvannur in Kozhikode used to be sung within the Pulaya community on the seventh month of a woman giving birth to her first child. With an infectious rhythm, this was one of the crowd favourites on Monday.“It’s originally sung in a highly colloquial language in the Kadathanadu region. We had to tweak it a bit for everyone to understand. It used to be sung for almost the entire day, but the practice was stopped long back,” says folk singer Prajeesh Koyilandy, who has trained one of the teams at the competition.A folk song from the Paanan community, performed by one of the teams, is for exorcising ghosts. Another song from the Malaya community is a prayer for good harvest. The Pulluvanpattu was also sung by one of the competing teams.With traditional instruments like Pulluvan kudam and Kuzhithalam as accompaniments, the songs come in a variety of tempos, rendered with raw energy. The mid-tempo, almost trippy style of Pulluvanpattu is the one preferred by most participants.Introduced for the first time at the festival in Malappuram in 2013, the folk song quickly became a crowd favourite, due to the variety of indigenous music on offer.