http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/Former-Red-Cross-boss-threatened-in-south-Chattisgarh/article13994101.ece

A freelance writer, Malini Subramaniam, who earlier headed the international humanitarian organisation, International Committee of The Red Cross [ICRC] in Chattisgarh was threatened by the local police for writing on issues concerning the tribals from south Chattisgarh.Sources told The Hindu that police officers reached her Jagdalpur residence late on Sunday night to ask her "why she visits the forest” and writes on tribal issues. Ms Subramaniam asked the officials to get in touch with her during regular office hours. The former ICRC official lives in Jagdalpur, the main city in south Chattisgarh, with her daughters.Earlier, a local organisation, floated by the police in south Chattisgarh- Samajik Ekta Manch- also asked her to refrain from writing articles on human rights violations in the region.“About 20 members of the Samajik Ekta Manch reached her place to ask her why she writes against the [atrocities committed by] the police and not against the Maoists,” sources close to Ms Subramanium told The Hindu.Ms Subramanium had recently written a series of articles in a digital news portal questioning the arrests of the journalists in Bastar Division in south Chattisgarh, alleged fake surrenders and use of “rape” as an instrument to overpower the tribals in the area. Her and other journalists' investigation led to a probe by National Human Rights Commission [NHRC]. Earlier as the chief of ICRC in south Chattisgarh, she set up two of the best medical clinics deep inside the Maoist-dominated villages of Bijapur and Sukma district. The Hindu visited one of these clinics which were known for "comprehensive health care support." The project was lauded by the officials of the State's Health Department. The work of ICRC was even commended by the State’s Chief Minister Raman Singh. Later, however, ICRC was asked to leave south Chattisgarh as the External Affairs Ministry realised that the presence of ICRC in south Chattisgarh "may turn the issue into an international conflict." Ms Subramanium left ICRC to settle in Jagdalpur to work among the tribals. Later she started reporting from the area.The district police could not be reached on phone.