http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/For-mikes-in-one-voice/article13983745.ece

The council meetings of the city Corporation generally revolves around discussions on issues pertaining to the public, which often leads to squabbling between councillors to gain political brownie points. In the last meeting, the first one after the new council took charge, there was near unanimity on one issue. United Democratic Front councillor Sini raised the deplorable condition of microphones fitted on the councillors’ table, which found acceptance among other members. She said every time councillors wanted to make a point they have to ask attenders to bring hand-operated microphones as the ones fitted on their tables have been defunct for long. Ms. Sini, a second-time councillor, said she never got a chance to vote using the electronic buzzer as the machine too had become non-functional. The councillors were unanimous in urging the chair to restore the microphones and buzzers.The marketing of the recently concluded SAFF Football Cup was so excellent that even football fanatics in the city heard about the tournament after the initial few matches got over. Those initial matches were attended by only a handful of people and inside the greenfield stadium at Karyavattom with a capacity of close to 50,000 seats, they hardly filled up a few rows. A part of the stadium filled up during India’s match against Maldives, thanks to that country’s embassy officials who brought in their enthusiastic supporters. But on the day of the final, in which India beat Afghanistan, the city residents exceeded all expectations of the organisers. Around 35,000 people, including women and children, turned up and cheered the home team to a remarkable win. That match proved that we have enough football fans to fill up a mega stadium. It’s only a matter of just letting them know.The recent arrest of two persons by Forest officers on charge of illegal sale of rose-ringed parakeets has shed light on several misconceptions among the public regarding birds that were kept as pets. Over 100 birds, belonging to the species that has been listed under the Indian Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, were rescued by the officials. Officials say that people’s ignorance in this regard often places them on the wrong side of the law.(Reporting by Rajesh B. Nair, S.R. Praveen and Sarath Babu George)