http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/Foray-into-psychiatry/article14002536.ece

After nearly two decades, an attempt is being made to interpret the maladies of the mind in a Kannada film. Mana Manthana , directed by filmmaker and environmentalist Suresh Heblikar, is all set for release with the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) clearing it with a ‘U’ certificate.The film is produced by Dr. K.A. Ashok Pai, a Shivamogga-based psychiatrist.Mr. Heblikar and Dr. Pai have earlier produced three films based on psychological themes. Their last attempt was Aghata (Trauma) directed by Mr. Heblikar in 1995.Manasa Arts, the production house making Mana Manthana , has produced films and tele-serials on psychiatric themes. They were as part of an extended community mental health programme. Mana Manthana , according to Dr. Pai, deals with the unexplored aspect of psychiatry – countertransference - which is a therapist's emotional entanglement with a client.In Mana Manthana, a jilted lover approaches a psychiatrist for therapy. The young female psychiatrist, who counsels him, gets emotionally close to his story. This leaves both of them psychologically disturbed. “The theme deals with the professional hazards faced by mental health professionals because of the emotional and interpersonal relationship and the conflict between personal and professional life,” Dr. Pai said.New comers Kiran Rajput and Arpita are the protagonists.Mr. Heblikar, who has made a few path-breaking Kannada films in the late 70s, had taken a long sabbatical. Mr. Heblikar says that though the film has a strong academic theme, it will not be a docu-drama. “It will be lively like any appealing love story of the present generation,” he added.All the four films produced by Dr. Pai on psychiatric themes are directed by Mr. Heblikar. While, his first film, Kadina Benki (1989), which dealt with psycho-sexual problems, won the National and State awards, Prathama Ushakirana (1990) on child psychiatry got the State award. It was also screened at various film festivals in the international circuit. They made Aghata in 1995. Antarala, a 10-episode tele-serial produced by him had Girish Karnad in the lead, and dealt with different diagnostic entities.Making a film on psychological expressionism in the Kannada film industry can be traced back to Sharapanjara (1971) directed by Puttanna Kangal. This movie is based on the novel with the same title by Triveni. The film delineates the story of Kaveri, the protagonist, who turns schizophrenic. Manasa Sarovara by Mr. Puttanna dealt with the relationship between a middle-aged psychiatrist and his mentally disturbed patient.