http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/For-a-greener-and-cleaner-future/article14024672.ece

At a session titled Red Signals, Green Hopes at the Jaipur Literary Festival, former union minister Jairam Ramesh, one of the key negotiators at the Paris climate conference; Ajay Mathur, naturalist Valmik Thapar and writer Alex Shoumatoff discussed the environmental role for India and the manner in which growth and environment can be balanced in the Indian context.Ajay contended that the Paris talks were a game changer in many ways. “Governments realised that things needed to be done and public participation and transparency was necessary to meet climate goals. It has provided India an opportunity to develop green technologies and we must cash on it.”Jairam Ramesh dissed the China model of development and argued that India will need a new development model. “There are many reasons for following a new path. They are demographic pressures; the fact that climate change will impact us more and that environment is now a public health issue. We cannot afford to ape the West.”More than the political class conservationist Valmik Thapar blamed the bureaucratic red tape as one of the major reasons for deadlocks in environment policy. “I faced these issues even when Jairam was in the Union cabinet and the Prime Minister had okayed one of his proposals. It was pulled down by some officials. It is important to ensure that we educate our government officials about issues concerning the environment and sustainability. It will go a long way in bringing about change.”Mathur pointed out initiatives taken by the government to reduce energy consumption by moves such as providing led lamps for subsidised rates. “It will not change things overnight, but is a start.” Shoumatoff, whose blog; blog.dispatchesfromthevanishingworld.com documents the impact of climate change called for a need to bring in more out-of-the-box solutions to achieve a balance between growth and environment.The author was at JLF on invitation of Teamworks Arts