http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/For-the-love-of-acting/article14001647.ece

As a big boy, Darsheel Safary recently made a comeback on the small screen. He connected with the youth in the finale of Sun Yaar Try Maar, a show presenting teenage love stories, on Bindass channel. And this marked a transition from Ishaan Awasthi, the dyslexic child of Taare Zameen Par, we continue to admire. Here we saw him as a 17-year-old madly love struck. He tries to woo his childhood love in the craziest and humour filled ways. Darsheel is keen to dabble into different genres of acting.In an interview, Darsheel explains what all he has been doing and how he is managing to strike a balance between his acting and academics.You have been away from TV and cinema for sometime now. What have you been doing this while?Well, I was away from TV and cinema, but I was never away from acting. I was pursuing my studies while discovering different aspects of cinema and acting. I am in college and I have directed a bunch of short films and have done several theatre plays. I have been gathering knowledge about different genres in the field of entertainment.Who is the one person in cinema you admire the most and are you still in touch with Aamir Khan and Amol Gupte?There is no specific personality I admire the most. In my childhood, my favourite actor was Hrithik Roshan, as I loved the way he danced. And yes, I am in constant touch with Aamir sir. He has been my guru from the beginning and has always guided me with my projects. Also, Amol sir has been my mentor and I too consult him for help with my work.Having acted in Bollywood, TV and theatre, besides trying hands in direction, which one do you like the most and plan to pursue in future?From the very beginning, I am determined to pursue acting as a profession. Acting is my passion and this love for acting leads me to try all the different fields and genres of acting. Television, theatre and direction have made me understand the peculiarities of acting and allow me to try a variety of roles; refining me as an actor.How do you manage to study and complete your acting assignment?It’s just a matter of managing time and space you have. I carry my books to the sets and read in between the breaks. One just needs a simple plan to manage things side by side. Acting is my priority but pursuing my studies is of equal importance to me. So, I always try my best to keep a balance between the two.Besides acting, what else do you see yourself as?I am pursuing my bachelors in mass media right now. If not an actor, I would like to pursue something related to my field of graduation.