http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/For-your-property-to-fetch-a-good-price-all-the-legal-aspects-should-be-clear/article13975830.ece

Please provide me valuation for my duplex house in a plot area of 327 sq yds located in Nagarjuna Nagar, Tarnaka. The total area in the ground floor is 1142 sft and first floor has close to 780 sft. A total of 1922 sft construction is fully furnished and with marble flooring was completed in 2000. All other amenities including water supply are available.V. R. Sowrirajan.A few decades ago, Tarnaka was considered as peripheral part of Hyderabad, which was a main reason for attracting several Central Government research institutes like CCMB and IICT. However, now, Hyderabad as a metropolis has witnessed growth beyond Tarnaka, which holds a lot of commercial and residential potential. In this case, combining both the cost of construction and land, the overall value of the property would be close to Rs.1.05 crore. I have taken under consideration that all the legal aspects are clear, which is very important for fetching the right amount.Please provide me valuation for a 982 sft apartment constructed in 1992 at Dharma Karan Road, Ameerpet. The 982 sft also includes common area of about 18 per cent and undivided share of land is close to 36 sq yards. It’s a two-bedroom corner flat in second floor with granite flooring, wood work and includes other amenities.JayaramanAmeerpet continues to draw a lot of attention because of its immense residential and commercial value. In this particular property, I have also considered that it has all aspects of luxury facilities. According to me, the property cost would be around Rs. 30 lakh to Rs. 32 lakhPlease provide me valuation for a two-bedroom apartment of 750 sft with undivided share of land comprising of 30,35 sq yds at Manorama apartments in Trumilgherry area. The apartment was constructed in 1994 and I have recently got the flooring changed to premium vitrified tiles. ShivaThe rate in Trimulgherry area is gradually on the rise because of the realisation that the region has huge untapped commercial and residential potential. According to me, the two-bedroom apartment of 750 sft, which was constructed in 1994, would be close to Rs. 24 lakh.Please advice on the valuation of 200 square yards of land and a building constructed in 1975 at Prashanth Nagar, New Nallakunta. The dimensions of the land is 30 feet by 60 feet ( i.e., total 200 sq yards). There is a 10 feet road that leads to the house. The total built up area is 800 square feet.The cost of the property is affected by the approach to it but the area is prominent and has good demand . As the construction is old, the construction cost doesn’t matter on a big scale but the property cost can be around 90 lakhs to 1 crore, taking in account the construction cost is 5 to 7 lakh.