http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/For-all-of-us-folks/article13986461.ece

Folk art is clearly on a revival mode and generation next of indigenous art schools, is giving the movement the much required impetus. Kachni-bharni, a collective of six contemporary Madhubani artists represents the zeal they possess for turning the tide. “We want to bridge the gap between contemporary art and folk art. In our country, folk art is considered inferior to contemporary art and we want to challenge it,” Avinash Karn, part of the outfit which came into being last year with Deeptima Mishra, Mahalaxmi, Santosh Kumar Das, Shalini Karn and Shantanu Das. Santosh, Shantanu and Mahalaxmi, Avinash informs us, have been chosen for the upcoming Ojas Art Award 2016 to be given away at Jaipur Literature Festival.The Banaras-based group is taking up murals commissioned to them across the country. Since its inception, the team led by their teacher Santosh Kumar Das, has finished projects at Loka Foundation School in Aurangabad and at Hotel iLodge in Gurgaon. “Real good Madhubani artists are not finding support. They don’t get recognition nor do they get awards, which is why there is so much mediocrity around. We want to change that. And next month, we will have a few more artists joining the group,” says Avinash, who feels that as a group, the prospects of getting more work and bigger projects increase. “We also learn a lot from each other while working with each other.”Most of the members — having been born in traditional Madhubani families — grew up watching the indigenous art in Ranti district of Madhubani, Bihar. With all that they have seen and learnt at Banaras Hindu University, the young practitioners are trying to find a new idiom but with their roots firmly in tradition. “So, for one of the murals we have done a beach scene in Goa. The visual vocabulary has changed but the grammar is Madhubani,” explains Avinash whose 75-year-old grandmother back home practises Sujani embroidery.Though the group has named itself after two of the several diverse styles that exist within the school – Kachni and Bharni – meaning lines and shading, they don’t restrict themselves to any particular technique. “But we do give a lot of attention to human anatomy,” says Avinash. They stick together for mural projects, they do attempt to produce canvases individually as and when they get time.For more details visit www.kachnibharni.in