http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/letters/Fostering-innovation/article14003657.ece

The launch of the “Start-up India, Stand-up India” programme, unveiled by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, is likely to foster entrepreneurial spirit among the Indian youth (“PM unveils liberal start-up ecosystem,”Jan.17). India’s demographic dividend may become a “demographic nightmare” in the near future unless we produce jobs and opportunities for our youngsters. In such a scenario, the Prime Minister’s initiative is an important step and could prove to be historic. However, the government needs to do more to cultivate a better environment for entrepreneurship in our country.Amritpal Singh,AmritsarThe action plan for start-ups comes at a time when India’s economic growth is slowing perceptibly over a host of domestic and global reasons. Any measure to generate employment, create wealth and improve the economy is welcome. But the launch looks like a hurried act to increase industrial production at any cost.The announcement of the slew of incentives to boost start-up businesses seems to have sprung from the government’s need to give the impression that there is no ‘policy paralysis’. The decision to do away with labour inspections goes to overvalue wealth and undervalue labour. A corpus of Rs.10,000 crore is hardly sufficient to supplement the funding requirements of potential entrepreneurs. Obviously, very many people are so impoverished that they do not have a stake in what the government proposes to do to infuse new energy into the economy.Occasional high-sounding schemes do not enable the masses to cope with economic woes, especially the rising food inflation. The sort of growth sought to be propelled is so lopsided that the vast majority of people remain mere spectators of the ‘growth story’. For transforming their lives, a new people-centric model of economy commensurate with the political philosophy of radical humanism is imperative.G. David Milton,MaruthancodeThe initiative shows the seriousness the government attaches to improving the ease of doing business in our country. India has the advantage of demographic dividend, with a majority of the population being of working age. The ‘Start-up India, Stand-up India’ programme is a positive step in producing job-creators rather than job-seekers. New initiatives like tax exemptions and easy clearances will encourage entrepreneurs, who were hitherto flying to other countries.Credit availability is a major problem and is addressed by introducing government funding and incentivising venture capitalists. There is a greater need to encourage rural entrepreneurs and women entrepreneurs. Every educational institute should establish its own incubators and entrepreneurship centres. Finally, the initiative cannot be successful unless it is integrated with the ‘Make in India’ and ‘Digital India’ projects.Balaji Akiri.Rajam, Andhra Pradesh.The government’s initiative is laudable. The slew of incentives under this mission should give fillip to entrepreneurship in the country which presently remains plagued by red-tapism and lack of funding. One hopes this scheme is successful, reduces the burden of unemployment and proves to be a boon for the economic growth of our country.Anshu Patel,Dhanbad, JharkhandIt is unfortunate that the Congress has thought it fit to deride the praiseworthy measures announced by the Prime Minister for budding entrepreneurs (“Intolerance, start-ups can’t go together: Rahul,” Jan.17). The reference to some instances of perceived intolerance in the recent past is far-fetched and smacks of political opportunism. The promises held forth by Mr. Modi are a godsend for the entrepreneurial community which has had to wage a struggle to fund its ventures. It is high time all political parties learnt to separate the grain from the chaff and recognise the government’s genuine efforts to give the economy a boost.V. Nagarajan,Chennai