http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Four-candidates-file-nomination-papers-in-Deodurg-constituency/article14023842.ece

As the last day for filing nomination papers for the bypolls to the Deodurg (ST reserved) Assembly Constituency in Raichur district scheduled on February 13 is getting closer, four candidates filed nomination papers on Wednesday.Rajshekhar Naik from the Congress, Shivanagowda Naik from the Bharatiya Janata Party, Kariyamma Chintalakunta from the Janata Dal (Secular) and Independent candidate Shivaraj Dhore are the ones who filed their nomination papers at Tahsildar’s office in Deodurg.R. Selvaraj, Returning Officer and Assistant Commissioner of Lingsugur Sub Division, who received the nomination papers, told The Hindu that 10 nomination papers from four candidates were received. Of them, two were filed on Monday and the others on Wednesday, he added.Thousands of supporters and workers of all major political parties, the Congress, the BJP and the Janata Dal(S), holding party flags started gathering outside the Tahsildar’s office since morning.Mr. Rajshekhar Naik, who is the son of late Venkatesh Naik and brother of Raichur MP B.V. Naik, was accompanied by Minister of State for Medical Education Sharanprakash Patil, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee member Boseraju, District Congress Committee president Vasantkumar, Amaregowda Bayyapur and Hampanagowda Badarli when he filed his nomination papers.On the other hand, Mr. Shivanagowda Naik, former Minister, was accompanied by BJP State unit president Pralhad Joshi and former Ministers C.T. Ravi and B. Sriramulu.The Janata Dal(S) candidate, Ms. Chintalakunta, and Independent candidate Mr. Dhore had only a few supporters when they came for filing nomination papers.Addressing presspersons outside the Tahsildar’s office, the candidates expressed the confidence that they will win byelections. The Congress candidate said that people will elect him for ensuring development in the constituency, while the BJP candidate said that the voters were fed up with the misrule by the State government and thus elect him. The Janata Dal(S) candidate said that voters will elect her to fight for farmers.The police had made elaborate arrangements at the venue and also in the town to prevent any untoward incidents. Senior police officers, including Deputy Superintendent of Police of Lingsugur M. Pasha, were on the spot till the end of day.