http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Mangalore/Four-day-flower-show-at-Kadri-Park-from-Saturday/article14009967.ece

The annual floricultural and horticultural show will be conducted at Kadri Park for four days from January 23.Organised by the Department of Horticulture, this year’s show would specially feature Yakshagana in flower arrangement using Dutch roses, carnations and other flowers, according to Yogesh H R, Deputy Director of the department.Addressing the media here on Monday, he said that flower models based on musical instruments too would be displayed. The show will provide a platform for people to display their flower arrangements, bonsai plants, orchids and anthuriums, he said.To popularise terrace gardens among city dwellers and to encourage them to grow vegetables within the space available in and around the house, the department had arranged for a terrace garden demonstration at the show. Terrace gardening was an ideal way to promote hygienic and nutritive food habits among consumers, he said, adding that staff from the department would guide interested visitors on the steps involved.There would be competitions in flower arrangement, vegetable kitchen garden, terrace garden model, and floral rangoli. Winners would be honoured and selected models kept for public display. Mr. Yogesh said that Dakshina Kannada Hotel Association would conduct a food festival on the flower show premises. Cultural programmes would be conducted at the park on all days from 6 p.m. to 8.30 p.m., in connection with the nine-day Karavali Utsav which also begins on January 23. Vegetable carving competition for hotels, hotel management institutions would be organised. The department has fixed a nominal entrance fee of Rs. 10 for adults and Rs. 5 for children to enter the park on the four days of flower show. School children coming in groups would be given free entry.Various government departments will set up stalls disseminating information.The show would be organised to create awareness on horticulture activities among people, improve public sanitation, processing and value addition of horticultural produce, he said.B. Ramanath Rai, Minister for Forest, Environment and Ecology will inaugurate the show.