http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Kochi/FRBL-turnover-soars-as-gypsum-panels-grow-popular/article14004524.ece

With glass reinforced gypsum panels manufactured by FACT-RCF Building Products Limited (FRBL) growing popular, the joint venture company’s turnover is expected to cross Rs.20 crore during the current financial year.The growth is significant given that the company’s turnover was less than Rs.50 lakh two years ago.During the last financial year, the turnover touched Rs.2.5 crore, said C.P. Dinesh, managing director, FRBL, on Sunday. He said that income for the company had received a boost with FRBL entering construction consultancy.Sale of gypsum panels during the first nine months of the current year has brought in Rs.4.5 crore. About a lakh square feet of panels is expected to be sold during the year. Mr. Dinesh said that gypsum panels had become acceptable in the country as an alternative to conventional building materials given its environment friendliness and cost-efficiency.Maharashtra is among the States that has shown keen interest in the building material and has promised help FRBL for popularising it. The assurance came from Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis after a team of officials FRBL and FACT visited him last week. Mr. Dinesh and chairman and managing director of Fertilizers and Chemicals Travancore Jaiveer Srivastava were among those who visited the Chief Minister.A statement issued by FACT said that Mr. Srivastava requested Mr. Fadnavis to consider FRBL on a nomination basis for upcoming projects in Maharashtra. A team of senior officials from Maharashtra, including secretary to the Chief Minister, will visit Kochi as well as other sites where construction work is on using gypsum panels from FRBL, Mr. Dinesh said.He said that FRBL expected to get orders from the Nagpur Improvement Trust for a major housing project in the city.Construction work using gypsum panels from FRBL were on in Coimbatore, Bangalore and Kochi as well as in Nellore in Andhra Pradesh. Malayalam University at Tirur has placed fresh orders worth over Rs.1 crore for building 20 classrooms and associated facilities. The Coimbatore project, on the Coimbatore-Thiruchirappally Road, is a housing complex for textile workers. Forty houses are being built in Nellore and the project is expected to be commissioned in three months. A coir factory and associated facilities at Chavara in Kollam district, built using gypsum panels, will be inaugurated on February 15, Mr. Dinesh added.