http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Free-wi-fi-facility-on-Malpe-Beach-from-January-15/article13983316.ece

Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd (BSNL) will provide free wi-fi facility for tourists on Malpe Beach here from January 15.Chairing a meeting of District Tourism and Malpe Development Committee, R. Vishal, Deputy Commissioner, said that the facility would be available for one hour for one number. The Department of Tourism had paid Rs. 1 lakh to BSNL to provide the facility for three months.Even Reliance too had come forward to provide wi-fi facility for tourists. The maintenance of district tourism website had been entrusted to a private agency. Several initiatives were being taken to maintain cleanliness on the beach and also to ensure the safety of tourists.He directed D. Manjunathayya, Commissioner of Udupi City Municipal Council, to issue notices to illegal mobile carts selling snacks on Malpe beach and also to those carts which were not maintaining cleanliness. The police should hold talks with the Coastal Security Police on enhancing security on St. Mary’s Island, he said.He directed the Nirmiti Kendra to use Rs. 33 lakh, which was remaining with it after the construction of a tourist jetty at Malpe, for installation of high-mast lamps, laying of inter-lock tiles, construction of gazeboes and a ticket issuing room there. These facilities would help the tourists at the jetty.The meeting was informed that 33 beneficiaries had been selected to be given tourist taxis this year. But it was necessary to ensure that these taxis were used by the beneficiaries. It was decided to conduct annual inspection of these taxis.He directed the officials of Forest Department to collect fees from tourists going to Kudlu Tirtha as this could be used to enhance safety provisions there.The construction of basic infrastructure and roads to connect other beaches in the district such as those at Padubidri, Trasi, Maravanthe, Kaup and Othinene had been entrusted to the Karnataka Rural Infrastructure Development Ltd., Dr. Vishal said. P. Nagaraj, Assistant Director of Tourism; Arun Kumar, Project Director of Nirmiti Kendra; Yatish Baikampady and Sudesh, heads of private agencies, and representatives of Chamber of Commerce and Industry, were present.