http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/Freedom-from-oppression/article13995857.ece

As many as 38 Chenchu families, a particularly vulnerable tribal group (PVGTs), were freed from the clutches of exploitation at Amaragiri village of Kollapur mandal in Mahabubnagar district on Thursday following a raid by Revenue Divisional Officer, Nagarkurnool.National Adivasi Solidarity Council (NASC) and India Justice Mission (IJM), NGOs working on bonded labour and tribal issues, together brought the issue to the notice of District Collector, T.K. Sridevi, who asked RDO Devendhar Reddy to raid the village located on the banks of Krishna river on the fringes of Nallamalla forest.The Chenchus complained to Mr. Devendhar that the local fish traders have been supplying fishing nets to them on the condition of selling the fish only to them.They will cut down the amount invested on the nets and a meagre amount being offered to them denying the remunerative price.The Chenchus, who normally depend on the forest for living, had taken to fishing some three decades ago when the traders had offered work.However, a Chenchu man, Ilati Linganna said that they hardly earned two square meals a day during the past 30 years with fishing since they were not allowed to sell the catch in the open market.Leave alone clearing the debts, Mr. Linganna said each and every family was now neck deep in debts while the six traders, who were operating business, were doing well financially. Following a tip-off, the activists of the NASC camped in Nagarkurnool for a week to interact with the tribals and understand their issues. Activists of the NASC and the IJM then approached the District Collector. Mr. Devendhar and activists of the NASC and the IJM have went to Amaragiri and interacted with the Chenchu families. They were brought to Kollapur where the RDO declared them free from exploitation.Mr. Devendhar said each family would get Rs. 20,000 as initial benefit and the poor tribal people will be given priority in all government welfare schemes. “The fishermen will be extended support to fish independently and market them,” he said.Chenchus who were into fishing were not allowed to sell the catch in the open market by the traders