http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/From-Sweden-with-love/article13997408.ece

There really is something to be said about Swedish design. Its clean, minimalistic style has won hearts the world over – furniture from IKEA, clothes from H&M, eye-wateringly fast supercars from Koenigsegg; even the beautifully modest bottles of Absolut Vodka. Volvo, yet another Swedish staple, has finally realized the value people attach with simplistic Swedish design, evident in the new S90. As CEO Hakan Samuelsson puts it, “We have an identity that’s unlike the others, and we’ve got a new, genuinely Swedish look which is very elegant and Nordic.”The S90 is all set to launch in India in 2016, in direct competition with the segment-leading German trio – the Audi A6, Mercedes-Benz E-Class and BMW 5 Series. Well-engineered and beautifully designed, the new Nordic design philosophy is very evident in the S90’s exterior styling. It moves away from the heavy-shouldered look of the last-generation S80, with its use of bold lines and minimalistic detailing.At the front, you have long headlights with Volvo’s cool new ‘Thor’s Hammer’ LEDs, a protruding concave grill, short overhand and vertical nose, all coming together to make it look decidedly different from its German competition. Moving around to its side profile, you have a smooth, unfettered flank. This harmony, however, is disturbed at the rear – the taillights feel a tad too oversized and overdone, and the number of lines makes it all feel somewhat fussy. In either case, it all still feels very distinctive.What really sets it apart from the crowd, though, is its long, drawn-out look. The car almost looks like it has been extruded, an achievement made possible by pushing the cabin as far back as possible, and extending its wheelbase to an impressive 2,941mm.The drawn-out design lends the S90 with a certain elegance, apart from expanding cabin space substantially. However, the elongation has one drawback – it reduces torsional stiffness, at least theoretically. But this being Volvo, a brand scarily (and reassuringly) obsessed with safety, it has managed to counter that. Volvo engineers we spoke to assured us that the S90 is well up on rigidity – “Stiffness is important for many factors like ride comfort and handling, but it is also important for another factor, safety. And it is for this reason that the new S90 has been made extremely stiff.”In an attempt to ensure high torsional stiffness, Volvo has compromised on dynamic ability in favour of rigidity by using extremely high-strength Boron steel in its construction. The car is built on Volvo’s new, flexible Scalable Platform Architecture, imparting it with all the benefits of modern construction. The European version’s 152mm of ground clearance won’t be adequate for Indian road conditions; however, Volvo is sure to raise the height for the Indian version, to enable it to tackle large speed-bumps and ramps so ubiquitous here.On the inside, the influence of the XC90 is obvious. the large, portrait-layout touchscreen display, instrument panel, steering wheel and centre console are much like the ones found in the XC90. The quality of fit and finish is very high, almost on par with Audi.The finish of the interior compels you to indulge in touch-and-feel – the abundantly-used leather is sumptuous, supple and ‘fluffed up’, layered with elegant swatches of wood. Some aspects of cabin design are distinctly different from the XC90 though, like the band of chrome that dissects the dash and the longitudinally-aligned aircon vents. Rear legroom is ample, with good thigh support and a large, supportive backrest. The use of a rear quarter glass lends added airiness to the cabin, apart from improving rear visibility.This being a Volvo, safety features abound. Features like Pilot Assist – the semi-autonomous driving feature that keeps the car within motorway road markings – and City Safety system to detect large objects and warn the driver while priming the brakes, have trickled down to the S90 from the XC90. However, the on-going scrap over the use of automotive radar frequencies makes it unclear as to which of these features will make it to the Indian version.The European markets will be offered the S90 with three engine options – the T8 ‘Twin-Engine’ plug-in hybrid and the D4 and D5 diesels. However, we expect only the D4 and D5 diesel engines to make it to Indian shores. Both are 2.0-litre motors, with the D4 tuned to produce 188bhp and the D5 a substantial 232bhp. Volvo says it will get the top-of-the-line ‘Inscription’ trim to India, begging the assumption that the more powerful D5 will come to us before the D4.Volvo has stated that pricing will be “extremely competitive”, meaning the S90 could go on sale with prices starting as low as around the Rs 46-lakh mark. All that remains for Volvo to really do then is improve the reach of its currently-limited dealer network.