http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Food/From-his-grandma%E2%80%99s-larder/article14024666.ece

When Auroni Mookerjee’s grandma made kosha mangsho (mutton curry), she might have never imagined serving them as tacos. Or her aloo-jhinge posto as gnocchi, or that delicious, sweet staple, mishti doi, as a frozen yoghurt. However, it’s her recipes that feature in the contemporary Bengali pop-up restaurant, Grandma Mookerjee’s Kitchen, which is on in Chennai this weekend at Ashvita Bistro.Join Grandma Mookerjee’s Kitchen at Ashvita Bistro from Friday, January 29 to Sunday, January 31.  Address: 11, Bawa Road, Alwarpet Timing Lunch: 12.30 p.m. to 4 p.m.  Dinner: 7.30 p.m. to 11 p.m. Price Veg: Rs. 799 + Taxes  Non-Veg: Rs. 999 + Taxes Reservations Email: munira@ashvita.com  Tel: 97910 88189 But don’t be fooled by the term ‘contemporary’: the flavours and ingredients are authentic, assures Auroni, an advertising professional-turned-chef, who is the brain behind the Mumbai-based enterprise. “My mother was a food critic, and so that love of food grew in me too. Once my grandmother passed away, we wanted to keep her recipes alive, as we were the only ones who knew it. You couldn’t find them in any cookbook,” he says. To this end, he first started a dabba service; it quickly became so popular that the kitchen he was using could not handle the number of orders coming in. That’s when he struck upon the idea of a pop-up that would serve Bengali food in a different avatar. Auroni’s love for modern European cuisine and cooking was the major influencer: “I also chanced upon a European pop-up in a popular Mumbai restaurant. All of these led me to think about doing traditional Bengali flavours with a modern twist, but modern only in terms of execution and technique.”He’s also quick to point out that it is not fusion. He doesn’t replace mustard oil with olive oil or ghee with butter; most ingredients are locally sourced or procured from Kolkata. “A lot of people compare my food to this restaurant in Calcutta called Bohemian, that does typical Bengali. But they use ingredients like mozzarella or olive oil; my larder will be completely traditional Bengali. What is different is that rather than serving a Calcutta kati roll, I will present it as a plate of tacos. Or instead of just serving fish or prawn curry with rice, I’ll make a risotto out of it.”The idea, he explains, is to make the food more relatable to a wider audience. “For example, the idea of eating a prawn head might be intimidating to some. So, I cook them down, extract all the juices and put it into ghee or butter to enhance a risotto. In that way, people get to experience the flavour without seeing a prawn head.” With even kati rolls getting flak for being too greasy or oily, he uses sour cream made from homemade dahi and bhaja moshla (a spice blend of cumin, coriander and fennel seeds, with cardamom, clove, black peppercorns, bay leaf and cinnamon) to make the tacos.Usually, the pop-up serves a tasting menu, but they also organise secret supper dinners, where Auroni serves up several courses. In Chennai, which is his first foray outside Mumbai, he will be serving a four-course meal, starting with amuse bouche, appetiser, main course and mishti (dessert). Diners can choose from soups, chops and tacos for appetisers, and cannelloni, gnocchi and quesadilla for entrée. “I’m looking forward to taking my food to places across India, so more people can experience it,” says Auroni, as he rushes back to the kitchen to finish prepping for today’s service.