http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Fruit-and-flower-show-begins-tomorrow/article14023489.ece

The Department of Horticulture is organising a fruit and flower show at the Flower Auction Centre at Doddanagudde here from January 29 to 31.Addressing presspersons here on Wednesday, K.A. Vijaykumar, Deputy Director of Horticulture, said that 32 varieties of flower saplings had been specifically grown for display at the show. These included marigold, petunia, verbena, coleus, impatiens, celosia, gomphrena, dahlia and sunflower. Other decorative flowers would also be on display, he said.The department had cultivated flower saplings in 5,000 flower pots, which would be available for sale. Saplings of various decorative trees too would be on display.In addition, there would be an exhibition of Shankarpura Mallige and Mattu Gulla vegetable, both from Udupi district, which enjoy geographical indication tag. Vegetable carvings and pictorial drawing of national leaders through “flower rangoli” would be other attractions.The figures of a boat, fish and heart, made out of either flowers or fruits, would be on display. The vegetables which could be cultivated on terrace gardens, too would be exhibited. Various horticultural crops grown by progressive farmers would be on display.A number of stalls selling agriculture and horticultural equipment would be set up at the venue. The department was spending Rs. 5 lakh on organising the fruits and flowers show.The soil and climate of Udupi district was suitable for the cultivation of horticultural crops.The main source of income for farmers in the district was from horticulture crops such as coconut, arecanut, cashew, spices, black pepper, ginger, turmeric, fruits such as mango, banana, pineapple, and sapodilla, and vegetables such as brinjal, cucumber, okra, and cowpeas.Horticultural crops and vegetables and fruits had vital role in the economic growth of both rural and urban areas of the district. If cultivated, they would increase their income and also generated jobs. Value addition to some horticultural produces also increased their value.With the increase in their shelf life due to modern technology, the horticultural products also had export potential. There were 200 cashew factories in the district, Mr. Vijaykumar said.