http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/Fugitive-husband-of-JDU-MLA-re-arrested-in-Bihar/article14011023.ece

The fugitive husband of a ruling Janata Dal (United) MLA who escaped from police custody in Purnea district last Sunday night was re-arrested early on Wednesday from Naugachhia in Bhagalpur district, the police said.MLA Bima Bharti has subsequently been charged with “political conspiracy” for helping her husband, Awadesh Mandal, escape from custody.“Along with three associates, Awadhesh Mandal who fled the Maranga police station, has been re-arrested,” Purnea Superintendent of Police Nishant Tiwari told The Hindu . Mr. Mandal and his associates were arrested from the house of the Parbatta village head.Mr. Mandal, against whom several criminal cases are pending in Purnea and other adjoining districts, was later remanded in judicial custody.“Stern action will be taken against those who helped Mandal escape”, Sunil Kumar, Additional Director General Police (Headquarters) said.Mr. Mandal was initially taken into police custody on Sunday after he had gone to Maranga village in Purnea to allegedly threaten a murder case witness. Ms. Bharti and JD(U) MP Santosh Kushwaha, along with their supporters, then reportedly got Mr. Mandal “released” from custody.Following this, Maranga police station in-charge Shivshankar Kumar was suspended for “dereliction in duty” and a team of police officials was constituted to arrest Mr. Mandal who was declared absconding.On Wednesday, Ms. Bharti, representing the Rupauli Assembly constituency, charged that a “political conspiracy” had been hatched against her husband.“When one accused was given tea and VIP treatment at the police station, my husband was ignored. I had gone there to meet him. There was a political conspiracy to put my husband in jail,” Ms. Bharti told journalists.In 2013, Ms. Bharti had registered a complaint with the police, alleging that she was severely beaten up by her husband.Appearing with a bruised face, she had also made a complaint to Chief Minister Nitish Kumar with regard to domestic violence, following which police filed a case against Mr. Mandal.However, the couple later reached a compromise and the case was dropped. Ms. Bharti was re-elected as JD(U) MLA in 2015.Opposition parties had earlier demanded that the Nitish Kumar government take action against Mr. Mandal and send him to jail for his alleged offences.