http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/Funds-for-UP-Haryana-projects/article14011055.ece

: In a decision expected to have a major impact on transport infrastructure across the NCR, the National Capital Region Planning Board (NCRPB) on Tuesday said it had decided to support nine transport infrastructure projects in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana.As per a statement, these would include a six-lane elevated road in the vicinity of metro projects at Ghaziabad, Noida and Greater Noida.The NCRPB will provide a loan of Rs. 700 crore for the development of a six-lane elevated road in Ghaziabad, it will also finance the 29.7 km long Rs. 5,533 crore Noida-Greater Noida Metro Project with a loan assistance of Rs. 1,587 crore.“The Project Sanctioning and Monitoring Group of NCRPB chaired by Urban Development Secretary Madhusudhan Prasad on Tuesday discussed several projects, including the two costing Rs. 7,838 crore, and decided to support them with a total loan assistance of Rs 3,113 crore,” the statement said adding that the projects, once completed, were expected to 'substantially improve' traffic flow and pollution levels in Delhi and adjoining areas.According to NCRPB Member-Secretary, B.K. Tripathy, this was the highest loan assistance approved in a single meeting of the Board with the two infrastructure projects in Uttar Pradesh expected to run up a cost of Rs. 6,681 crore for which the NCRPB would provide a loan of Rs. 2,287 crore while Haryana had proposed seven projects at a total cost of Rs. 1,157 crore and to now get a loan of Rs. 726 crore.The 10.3 kilometre-long six-lane elevated road with a single pier is the first of its kind in the country and is being developed by the Ghaziabad Development Authority at an estimated cost of Rs. 1,148 crore; the targeted date for the completion of the project is by the end of 2016.Taking off from near the UP Gate and ending at Rajnagar Extension the road connects the NH-24 with NH-58 and will serve as a bypass and end traffic concerns on the Kausambi-Mohan Nagar-Vaishali section.“In addition, the NCRPB will also provide Rs. 5,533 crore for the Noida-Greater Noida Metro Project – which connects the City Junction in Sector-71 with the Depot Station in Sector 142 -- with a loan assistance of Rs. 1,587 crore.Planning boardhas approved its highest loan assistance everof Rs 3,113 crore