http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/Functions-at-Dhanchiri-Camp-near-Rajokri-airbase-has-IAF-worried/article14004204.ece

In the wake of the terror attack at Pathankot airbase, the Indian Air Force has expressed concern over the regular functions being organised at the Dhanchiri Camp located near the Rajokri air force station on the Delhi-Gurgaon border.In a letter to Gurgaon Deputy Commissioner T.L. Satyaprakash earlier this month, the IAF authorities said that “regular functions are being organised at Dhanchiri Camp, which is situated near the outer parapet of the air force station Rajokri”. The letter also raised concern over the temporary structures being erected at the camp. “It has been noticed that temporary constructions have been erected by some civil agencies without any prior permission from the Air Force, which is dangerous in view of the routine day/night range firing practice being conducted regularly at this station. The letter further said that the location and the height of these constructions were also a security concern for this base as anyone can visually observe activities of the station or scale the perimeter wall creating security breach. The letter said that in view of the “recent attack at Pathankot airbase, immediate corrective action is considered desirable”.Spread across several acres, Dhanchiri Camp was developed for the 2010 Commonwealth Games. Now, the camp is used for official functions and sometimes marriages too. Last year, it hosted several events and conferences, including an annual conference for surgeons inaugurated by the Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar.Mr. Satyaprakash told The Hindu that the “temporary structure” at the camp was being erected for a marriage slated on January 26 and the organisers had already taken permission from the Haryana Tourism Department in this connection. “Since the permission has already been granted, it is difficult to withdraw it now. So we have asked the IAF officials to talk to the local police and find some solution to it. Also, we have decided that no events would be allowed at the camp in the future without NOC from the authorities of air force station Rajokri,” said Mr. Satyaprakash.Spread across several acres, Dhanchiri Camp was developed for the Commonwealth Games