http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/Game-on/article13982559.ece

There’s plenty for gaming enthusiasts to look forward to in 2016. A new year also means new adventures to embark upon, lots of new enemies to kill, and most importantly, plenty of fun to be had. If you like nothing more than taking part in a heist, exploring the universe or playing an intelligence agent, here are 12 games that will indulge your gaming fantasies this year.Uncharted 4: A Thief’s EndRelease date: April 2016Playing an Uncharted game is like watching a whole lot of action movies all at once. With its cinematic brand of storytelling, ‘A Thief’s End’ sees the protagonist, fortune hunter, Nathan Drake, coming back for one last job. And we all know how those can go. Drake’s newest and last adventure takes him across the world in search of pirate Captain Henry Avery’s treasure.Persona 5Release date: to be announcedNot much is known here about this charming ‘Persona’ series of role-playing games masquerading as a social simulator. A gaming phenomenon, this series has been getting rave reviews and breaking sales records since 2006 when ‘Persona’ came out. Set in high school, ‘Persona 5’ follows a bunch of students with the ability to summon their Personas (physical representations of their inner personalities). Forming a group of thieves known as ‘Phantom Thieves of Heart’, they set out to explore mysterious dungeons. It’s much like a coming-of-age story where you balance homework and the turmoil of being a teenager with unleashing your inner self to battle demons.No Man’s SkyRelease date: June 2016Boldly go where no man has gone before. The entire universe is open for you to explore in ‘No Man’s Sky’, an adventure survival video game that features millions of hours of play.You see, this game generates entire planets for you to explore and discover, each unique in its own way. With a fantastic, unique art style, this game looks like a potential winner.Tom Clancy’s The DivisionRelease date: March 2016When a deadly infection hits, who ya gonna call? Well, a secret organisation, ‘The Division’.You play a highly skilled self-sufficient operative during the complete breakdown of society. You don’t work alone but are part of a team. The game features realistic, fully destructive environment and weather, day/night cycles that affect enemies. This is one game that’s blown minds at every expo, and it will finally get launched this year.Dark Souls IIIRelease date: April 2016The ‘Dark Souls’ games are pretty masochistic in nature, with extreme difficulty levels that cause immense satisfaction. Each game is an edge-of-the-seat experience. This year sees a third ‘Dark Souls’ game, and we all know what comes in threes. This version will feature new Gothic levels filled with horrific creatures, truly frightening bosses and lots of weapons that need to be mastered.Street Fighter VRelease date: February 2016Here comes a new challenger. The latest version of the greatest fighting video game, drops like a suplex (stealthy move used by wrestlers) on eager beavers this year. Featuring a new look on that familiar one-on-one fighting systems, familiar series characters Ryu, Ken and gang are joined by a host of new and returning fighters.Deus Ex: Mankind DividedRelease date: August 2016‘Mankind Divided’, the new instalment in the Deus Ex franchise, takes you back into a cyberpunk future.Here, both sides of the issue of human augmentation are at the crux of the game: unaugmented ‘naturals’ up in arms against those who implant machines into their bodies. Adam Jensen will return as the protagonist for this instalment, with new powers and technology, to counter both sides.Final Fantasy XVRelease date: to be announcedSet in a massive high fantasy meets modern-day open world, the new Final Fantasy XV follows the exploits of Noctis and his merry band of friends. Noctis and gang roam the countryside slaying beasts and doing all manner of Final Fantasy stuff.A brave new world for the series to get into. This version, XV, looks like it will be the definitive game to restore the series to its former glory.Dishonoured 2Release date: to be announcedThe original ‘Dishonoured’ was a superb mix of arcane and steampunk in one explosive package.The sequel is a return to this world of action-adventure and stealth role-playing. After taking part as Empress Emily Kaldwin during the game’s prologue; players can opt to play as either Kaldwin or Corvo Attano (the princess and the protagonist from the previous game). Featuring a mixture of stealth and fantastic level design, ‘Dishonoured 2’ should definitely be in your look-out list.Mirror’s Edge CatalystRelease date: May 2016Faith in every way is back in this prequel to the original ‘Mirror’s Edge’ (2008).This one is set in a dystopian futuristic city called Glass. Stick it to the totalitarian conglomerate of corporations who rule by freerunning across the city, as you uncover the origin story of one of gaming’s most iconic characters, Faith. The game that brings back that art style that we so love.Horizon Zero DawnRelease date: to be announcedRobotic dinosaurs, human hunters, prehistoric-slash-futuristic setting, sign us up now!A new concept from the folks behind ‘Killzone’, ‘Horizon Zero Dawn’ takes you way into the future where machines have taken over and you step into the shoes of a hunter, wielding specialised bows and arrows designed to hunt and take down the mechanised predators.How did Earth get this way?Where’s the rest of humanity gone off to?We’re eager to find out.Mass Effect AndromedaRelease date: December 2016The very thought of a new ‘Mass Effect’ game on the horizon is enough to send goosebumps of anticipation down one’s spine.With the original trilogy ending with a bang, fans have been waiting to dive back into the universe, this time with new characters and new planets to visit, in addition to seeing how the galaxy has moved on.Not many details are out as of now, with the exception of the Mako, the six-wheeled space buggy, making a comeback.The game is slated to be released at the end of this year, so we have the whole of 2016 full of ‘Mass Effect’ tidbits to look forward to.(Andre Rodrigues is an avid gamer and a freelance writer)‘The Division’, a game that’s literally blown minds at every expo, will finally be launched this year