http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Vijayawada/Ganja-racketeers-had-nationwide-links/article14026516.ece

: Police probing the ganja racket were startled to find out that the gang behind it had nationwide links. The contraband being smuggled from the tribal hamlets of Odisha is being smuggled to different States from Vijayawada as hub.The gang had set up a centre to transport ganja to the neighbouring States. Besides, they had formed a network to distribute the illegal product for local consumption.The Ibrahimpatnam police seized huge quantity of ganja packed in an abandoned lorry in the Kondapalli Industrial Development Area on the city outskirts a few days ago. During investigation, it was found that a gang was smuggling the contraband from Odisha .Police reportedly took a few suspects into custody, who spilled the beans. Based on their confession, police conducted raids and identified the godowns where the gang was storing the ganja stocks and transporting it to the neighbouring States.The investigating officers were puzzled on how the smugglers were transporting it to Vijayawada bypassing several check-posts on the national and State highways. They are trying to find out since how long the gang had been operating from Vijayawada.Earlier, the Government Railway Police and the Prohibition and Excise police seized ganja being smuggled through trains and on lorries, vans, cars and other vehicles from Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Telangana and the Agency areas from Visakhapatnam .“This is the first time we have seized such huge quantity of ganja, worth about Rs. 2 crore. Police are trying to find the origin of the smuggling and also the various destinations. The accused had formed a wide network in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and other States,” a police officer investigating the case said. Police teams have been sent to the neighbouring States to nab the accused and a few members of the gang who absconded soon after the police seized the ganja-laden lorry.“Efforts are being made to track down the others with the call data records of the accused,” the official said.