http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Mangalore/Garbage-piles-up-on-city-roads/article13983308.ece

The stalemate between Mangaluru City Corporation and Antony Waste Handling Cell Private Ltd. continued on Tuesday even as heaps of garbage piled up on the city roads. The corporation hopes that the company will resume door-to-door collection on Wednesday following telephonic talks between Mangaluru South MLA J.R. Lobo and the firm’s top officials. Antony Waste Handling Cell Private Ltd., which is entrusted with waste management of the entire city, stopped door-to-door collection of garbage and transportation citing non-payment of Rs. 10 crore due to it since February last.According to the company, the civic body owed Rs. 2.5 crore from February to July to it. The amount was in dispute and the corporation had not taken any decision to settle it. The company has claimed that the civic body owed Rs. 1.60 crore for August-September, Rs. 1.25 crore for October and Rs. 4.9 crore for November and December, 2016. The company had for the same reason stopped collection of garbage two months ago.Following stoppage of garbage collection, Corporation Commissioner H.N. Gopalakrishna and councillors had a meeting with the representatives of the company. While the civic body offered to clear Rs. 1.97 crore that was due, the company insisted that the corporation clear the whole amount due to it.Another meeting was held on the corporation premises in the evening, which, however, failed to break impasse.Prakash Saliyan, chairman, Standing Committee for Public Health, Education and Social Justice, told The Hindu that they had no complaints with the firm regarding door-to-door collection.But the company had failed to comply with other works, including sweeping streets by deploying 300 personnel. The firm had not removed silt accumulated in roadside drains and deploy mechanical sweeping machine on cleaning concrete roads. Mr. Saliyan said that the corporation has imposed penalty on the firm for its failure in carrying out tasks that had been entrusted to it. The civic body owes only Rs. 1.97 crore that pertains to November and December. He accused the firm of using “pressure tactics”.Retorting to the allegations, Haridas Saliyan, project in-charge of the company in Mangaluru, said that cleaning of drains had been stopped as per the orders of the corporation. The has not taken up mechanical sweeping of concrete roads as the corporation’s mechanical sweeping machine was not in working condition. The company that serviced the machine has sought Rs. 5 lakh for repairs, he said.