http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Garbage-menace-still-haunts-Lalur/article13983813.ece

Even after the Thrissur Corporation stopped dumping of city waste at Lalur, the city corporation’s dump yard, three years ago, mounds of garbage continue to haunt the local people.If the fire at dump yard creates havoc during summer, the filthy water oozing out of the garage pollutes s the entire area during monsoon. The garbage heap caught fire twice in the last week alone.What Lalur needs is a lasting solution for the issue, says Lalur Malineekarana Viruddha Samara Samithy leader T.K. Vasu.“The Lalur dump yard is a live volcano. It hides fire in its belly. Rotten garbage dumped there for decades has been generating inflammable gases. It catches fire now and then. Frequent fire incidents will continue until the mounds of garbage are removed from there,” he noted.Many times people have had to be evacuated during the fire incidents as thick smoke from the garbage heap caused severe health problems.Children and elderly are most affected. Many children in the area suffer from asthma and skin diseases, Mr. Vasu noted.The situation is equally bad during rains. Most of the wells in the area are polluted because of the seepage from the garbage heaps.The Kerala Pollution Control Board had banned use of water from wells around the dump yard.Following years of protest by local residents, the city corporation had stopped dumping of city waste at Lalur in 2012. A project LAMPS (Lalur Model Project for Solid Waste Management) was implemented to process the garbage dumped there. A contract was signed by the city corporation with the Kerala Agriculture University for the implementation of the LAMPS.“Later, Chief Minister Oommen Chandy intervened and allotted funds to remove the garbage from the dump yard and entrusted the Public Works Department for doing the work. But when we enquired with the PWD they claimed that they haven’t received any work order regarding it,” said Mr. Vasu.Mayor Ajitha Jayarajan said that the corporation will soon chalk out a plan to find a permanent solution for the Lalur issue.“Last time the fire was caused as the dried grass caught fire. We will immediately take steps to remove the grass,” she said.But the Lalur Malineekarana Viruddha Samara Samity alleged that the corporation has been trying to find temporary solution as always. Gallons of precious water are being wasted every summer to douse the fire. Removal of garbage from the dump yard is the only solution, they said.