http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Gathering-to-celebrate-food/article13999500.ece

When you gather to enjoy a meal, with different dishes being discussed, tasted and enjoyed till the last morsel, the atmosphere is a happy one. With that happy vision in mind and to enable people to eat, chat and reunite over food, Food Gathering plans to make guests feel at home.And when it is a gathering, choices can change; so this cosy restaurant at Madhapur has a suggestion for everyone. Don’t let the chic décor mislead you into thinking that it won’t meet the palate of a ‘shudh desi khana lover’. Or of someone who loves Chinese. Food Gathering has everything that we like to eat on a day to day basis, including sambar rice and buttermilk. Owner, Jai Bharat also vouches for the lassi which they serve at their restaurant.If you are in a tearing hurry or want a comfort meal, try their sambar rice. It doesn’t let anyone down. It is made to perfection and could make you want to take a snooze. However, if there is time in hand and your gathering loves meat, then break loose on the kebabs and order them without having to worry of how they would turn out to be. Each variety of kebab in chicken and mutton is a lip smacker. Vegetarians will have to make do with paneer, but with loads of varieties to satisfy them. Chinese is good and even though it is the Indian Chinese variety, the meats and fish here do not come with a thick coat of arrowroot powder. Taste? No reason to complain if you love Indian Chinese. The restaurant isn’t fancy as far as interiors are concerned, it is one of those friendly neighbourhood ‘go to’ or ‘order in’ places for a number of reasons. To make the best out of what is available, Food Gathering has lovely bright coffee shop kind of interiors who can serve you both pudina annam and kheema biryani with equal ease. Having said that, the eatery’s biryanis are quite high on taste and are served with a swirl of ghee to add to the appetising aroma. The variety of flavoured rice which the eatery has to offer will definitely meet your rice cravings. Whether or not one wants to order a dish to go with it, do try their raita; the eatery takes a lot of pride in it. raita.For desserts this restaurant has a couple of desi sweets made inhouse. Or else, one can settle for ice creams. Or how about piping hot gulab jamun with a dollop of vanilla ice cream?Valet parking is available and the entry to the restaurant is through the lane.The Food GatheringWhere: Madhapur , Plot 61, Madhura Plaza, Opposite Fortune Towers, Hitech City RoadWhat: Indian, regional and ChineseDelivery: AvailableTable for two: Rs 700 approxPhone: 040 60124222, 040 60124333