http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Gathering-in-defence-of-freethinking/article13978294.ece

A group of social and cultural activists and rationalists who gathered here on Saturday evening said that incidents of attacks such as the torching of a studio of a photographer here for his comments on the social media criticising purdah system pose a serious threat to secularism and democracy.The ''gathering against religious fascism'' organised to condemn the attack on the studio here on December 26 following a hate campaign on the social media on photographer Rafeeque Taliparamb, a Communist Party of India (Marxist) sympathiser, also called for a social and political platform comprising progressive political forces and organisations to mobilise the public against growing religious intolerance.Mr. Rafeeque's studio had been completely damaged in the fire. He had been at the receiving end of threats on the social media after he made critical comments on the social media on purdah. The police here are yet to arrest any one in connection with the investigation. The police said that a CCTV camera of a nearby hotel is being examined to identify the attackers. The loss caused by the torching is estimated to be Rs.10 lakh.Inaugurating the gathering here in the evening, social activist K. Venu said that the absence of Left and progressive political forces to come out against the attack is deplorable.Religious fascism of all hues would weaken secularism and democracy. A socio-political intervention against religious fascism should emerge, he said.Addressing the gathering, writer C.R. Parameshwaram said the history of renaissance in the State and the country is facing reversal from religious fanaticism. Muslims themselves are the victims of Islamic fanaticism, he said.Kerala Yukthivadi Sanghom patron U. Kalanathan, in his presidential address, said that the attack on the studio would not have occurred had the police intervened immediately after the photographer was threatened on the social media.Critic of Islamic fundamentalism E.A. Jabbar, Kerala Freethought Film Society president and filmmaker Sajeevan Anthikkad, painter Ponnyan Chandran, KYS leaders Krishnan Iringal, and Gangan Azhikode were also present.Meanwhile, the initiatives to mobilise funds by various groups of freethinkers and rationalists on the social media are bearing fruit. Activists said that the fund collection is progressing. They hope that the collection including the committed donation is expected to reach Rs.4 lakh in a couple of days.