http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Gear-up-to-tackle-terror-groups-on-social-media-says-Ramudu/article14021259.ece

The police plan to introduce paperless system in phases across the State, Director-General of Police J.V. Ramudu has said.“We have introduced paperless policing system in the West Godavari District Police Office on a pilot basis. I am keen on extending it to other DPOs in phases for efficient policing,” he told reporters here on Monday on the sidelines of a workshop on IT initiatives in South Coastal Zone.Noting that the Guntur Urban Police used Google Docs for sharing online documents and folders among officers, he asked J.V. Santosh, Deputy Superintendent of Police (East), Guntur Urban, to introduce paperless office through digitised file processing.Earlier, inaugurating the workshop, he expressed concern over the ISIS using the Internet and the social media to win sympathisers in India.He said that a situation, wherein conventional crimes such as burglary, chain snatching, would account for just 10 per cent of the total crime in future. IT-based frauds would account for the rest of the crimes, he added.“Unlike the past, we now have amorphous terrorist groups that have spread throughout the globe and extending their reach through the social media,” he said, and exhorted the police to gear up to take on the biggest-ever challenge in the changing times. Going forward, the State police would introduce IT in every sphere to ensure people-friendly policing, he said. He noted with satisfaction that after introduction of the e-challan system in Prakasam district last month as many as 600 tipplers were sent to jail as police personnel on the street could book them for drunken driving with proof. He patted Prakasam SP Ch. Srikanth for disposing of 1,002 of the total 1,037 complaints received online through the three iClik centres. Control Command Centre Officer V. Suryanarayana made a PowerPoint presentation on iClik success story as also FINS, a pilot project in the country implemented in Ongole.We will introduce IT in every sphere to ensure people-friendly policingJ.V. RamuduDirector-General of Police