http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Thiruvananthapuram/Gem-of-an-introduction-to-cinema/article13993389.ece

On a day when most schoolchildren are bogged down by the rush between tuition classes, around 50 young ones gathered at the Lenin Balavadi to get acquainted with world cinema. Sunday witnessed the opening of an exclusive film appreciation club for children, the Balavihar’s Children’s Film Club.“We have very active film societies here, screening films from across the world regularly. But, the films being screened here cater mostly to the grownups. This prompted us to think of a film club for children. This being the birth centenary year of Balavihar founder Subramania Sharma, we decided to start this club as part of the centenary celebrations,” said Sreekumar of Balavihar.‘A class’Actor Madhu, who in 1995 produced the award-winning children’s film Mini , inaugurated the event. He asked the children to see the film screening like sitting through an interesting class.“Through the films being screened here, these children will get introduced to life and people from different parts of the world. When they become acquainted to such cinema from young age, they grow up to become knowledgeable viewers. Those who make films will also start feeling a responsibility that they are catering to such an audience and they will also consequently try to make better cinema,” said Mr. Madhu.He said that the situation in our cinema had changed for the better, compared to a few years ago, when mindless commercial cinema ruled the roost.“Many of the famous actors and filmmakers started quite young, directing and acting in small plays based on their favourite books. Maybe, some of these children who grow up on such films will also become good artistes in the future,” he said.On first SundaysThe opening film was Majid Majidi’s Children of Heaven , which deals with a brother and sister and their adventures over a lost pair of shoes. The film club will have its screenings on the first Sunday of every month. Contact: 94957 47231.