http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/letters/Gender-and-religion/article13995996.ece

As long as the Sabarimala temple remains a religious place par excellence, it is up to the devotees to stipulate the rules and regulations (“ >Is it constitutional to keep women off Sabarimala temple, asks Supreme Court,” Jan.12). It is highly inappropriate on the part of the apex court to meddle in the internal affairs of the temple management. Matters of faith by their very nature are outside the ambit of reason and logic. Unless it can be conclusively proven that restrictions on entry to women violate the larger fundamental rights, the restrictions imposed in what is an exclusively religious matter cannot be proven unconstitutional.C. Suresh,ThrissurThe question posed by the Supreme Court is one women from Kerala and India have been asking for a long time, questions that have been left unanswered in the name of tradition. This is an opportune moment for people from Kerala and throughout India to evolve a solution that allows women their right to worship. However, we need to be wary of unscrupulous religious elements who will use this to create communal tensions. It is ironical that such a regressive practice has existed in one of the most progressive States of the country, and the most literate one, for this long.Devadas V.,KannurSome of the questions posed by the Supreme Court may be hurtful to the religious sentiments of lakhs of devotees who visit the Sabarimala temple. A temple is not a public museum or a picnic centre where the right to congregate is unrestricted. It has certain unwritten rules and traditions being followed for centuries. For instance, one rule observed in the case of the Sabarimala temple is an observance of vratham (fasting) for 41 days. It cannot be changed just to suit a section or some sections. That the temple management should have powers to impose restrictions when it comes to its religious practices cannot be contradicted. It is also to be noted that this is one temple where there is no discrimination on the grounds of caste, creed and religion. Women of one age group are denied entry as a mark of restriction. A temple is a sacred place for the devotees and a true devotee is expected to comply with the rules and respect the traditions.K. Rajendran,ChennaiThe Travancore Devaswom Board, one hopes, will come out with suitable answers to the poser of the apex court. Having said that, disturbing traditional practices is akin to stirring up the hornet’s nest and creating chaos in the society. The court also needs to find out how many women of the age group 10-50 years are willing to go to the temple if allowed. Going to Sabarimala is not equivalent to going to any other temple. It is an arduous pilgrimage.S. Ramakrishnasayee,RanipetThe apex court has very rightly questioned the logic behind the ban on women entering the famous shrine at Sabarimala in Kerala. It is also evident that the Travancore Devaswom Board, which manages the shrine on the basis of the past customs and traditions, does not have any constitutional right to prohibit women from worshipping at Sabarimala.It is also relevant to mention here that several Christian churches prevent women devotees from going near the altar. Even such practices need to be challenged immediately.Mathew Oommen,PuneThe Supreme Court’s observation is welcome. The archaic diktat followed by the Travancore Devaswom Board is not supported by any law. The so-called rule 3 (b) of the Kerala Hindu Places of Public Worship under which the ban is enforced infringes on the fundamental rights enshrined in Articles 14 and 25 of the Constitution. Further, the Sabarimala temple is a public temple managed by funds collected from the worshippers. It cannot be managed like a private place of worship. The apex court can direct the state and the management to frame suitable guidelines taking into account the rituals and practices to be followed. However, there cannot be a blanket prohibition on entry to women.Babu Prakash V.K.,Kollam