http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Visakhapatnam/General-cargo-terminal-launches-operations/article13999136.ece

A six-million tonne multipurpose and general cargo terminal built by a consortium at West Quay-6 berth of Visakhapatnam Port Trust under BOT has launched its commercial operations with the berthing of ship from Gujarat carrying steel pipes for use in a water pipeline in Telangana.The berth has been developed at a cost of Rs.225 crore by West Quay Multiport Pvt. Ltd, a special purpose vehicle floated by ALBA Asia Pvt. Ltd, French shipping major Louis Dreyfus Armateurs and Starport Logistics of Mumbai. The receipt of 10,000 tonne of large steel pipes with two metre diameter and 12 metre in length for the first time in Visakhapatnam marked the launching of the operations. The ship Maithilli arrived here from Surat on account of Arkay Logistics Ltd.The berth has 255 metre length and 14.1 metre draft. It is equipped with 2x60 tonne level luffing cranes.At a time when overall volumes of major ports is declining, the launching of a completely automated terminal which allow berthing of fully laden Panamax vessel without lightening has brought cheer to the shipping community.ALBA CEO Gurpreet Singh Malhi has told The Hindu that the new terminal was amongst the most modern and efficient multipurpose cargo handling facilities in the country.The berth will handle designated cargoes such as steel, granite blocks, petroleum coke, calcinated petroleum coke, LAM coke, and other multipurpose and general cargo.Concession pactThe promoters expect to handle three million tonne in the first year of operation. The consortium signed the concession agreement with VPT in 2010. The promoters are presently constructing a 14-million tonne coal terminal at Tuticorin Port with an investment of Rs.650 crore. Almost 90 per cent of work has been completed. “We will launch the commercial operations by the year-end,” Mr. Malhi has said.ALBA Regional Director Capt. Manpreet S. Jolly has said with VPT going for automation in a big way, the port is turning into a world-class port.The new terminal is one among the most modern and efficient multipurpose cargo handling facilities in the country.Gurpreet Singh MalhiCEO of ALBA