http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Get-rid-of-winter-pollution/article14010177.ece

Winter gives us respite from hot and sweaty days but it also brings along a multitude of health problems because the calm and cool weather makes pollution hang heavy. But the severity of the smog depends on the actual pollution level that is already unacceptably high and rising every year. As the festive season ends, it leaves behind a highly polluted atmosphere, which is caused due to excessive vehicular emissions. Air is enveloped in a thick blanket of pollution which is further heightened by calm weather conditions in winter and activities like burning of leaves after autumn fall, heating wood, burning of crops and heaps of garbage. With the result the cold air gets heavier leading to greater amount of pollutants at the breathing height. The viruses too, in this changing weather, proliferate and add to the suffering of the population especially causing eye, lung and skin complications. Children are always the worst sufferers of these changes, leading to a multitude of problems. Owing to their delicate immune systems – usually low and narrow airway tracts – they are prone to various ailments. And the worst hit by bad air quality are the children suffering from asthma, adverse respiratory effects, upper respiratory otitis, tuberculosis, acute pulmonary haemorrhage, pneumonia bronchiectasis, sudden infant death syndrome and changes in lung function asthma/bronchospasm/allergies.Normally, everyone is affected by the adverse health effects of winter and pollution to some extent. And these problems are only increasing with each passing year. While most people think that pneumonia and asthma are the only diseases caused due to these factors, there are other ailments which can occur too due to following reasons:For instance, use of biomass and solid fuels for household cooking and heating are often associated with increase in acute respiratory infections and these are the leading cause of death in children, especially the ones under five years.Indoor air pollution with environmental tobacco smoke is linked to acute otitis media, which is a group of inflammatory diseases of the middle ear. Apart from these infections, outdoor exposure to ozone is often linked to bronchospasm and asthma attacks in some children. Exposure to indoor moulds is associated with acute pulmonary hemorrhage among infants.High exposure to particulate and second hand smoke is associated with sudden infant death. Thus, environmental health problems contribute very significantly to “burden of diseases" in childhood stage. According to World Health Report, besides under nutrition, and safe water supply, air pollution is the third most important factor contributing to poor health. Reasons why Children are more vulnerable:Prime reason as to why children are most affected by air pollution and pollutants is because of they are highly exposed to the outside environment as they spend more time playing outdoors. They inhale more pollutants per kilogram of their body weight than adults do. Most importantly, their airways are narrower. Thus, irritation can result in proportionately greater airway obstruction.Also, children should be fully covered so as protect them from exposure to cold winds. Last, and the most important is to provide timely immunisation to children with all available vaccines. Seek early consultation with your paediatrician at the onset of any significant illnesses in the children.Interventions recommended:Firstly, the government and administration should come forward and take some strict measures, if need be.We, as part of community, at individual level should restrict our activities that add on to the problem.For instance, avoid adding on to industrial and vehicular pollution, burning of leaves and garbage and be careful about transport and infrastructure planning. We should make efforts at individual and family level to avoid increasing pollution at home and in our surroundings.Avoid visits to over congested places, where exposure to communicable diseases and infections is common.Wash hands frequently and sanitise them, especially after being in contact with someone who has running nose or cough and fever.Avoid exposure to smoke of any kind especially, in indoor environment. Provide proper nutrition for optimal growth and development.