http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/Get-togethers-at-night-a-new-way-of-campaigning/article14025471.ece

Get-togethers of friends, families or colleagues are a common place. But what’s new is the get-together of voters and ‘influential’ persons. Thanks to Baldia election campaign, it is the most happening event in the city now.Candidates of different parties in the fray found an opportunity in get-togethers to promote themselves and are organising as many as possible. Vehicles strapped with loud speakers going around localities seeking votes from people, distribution of pamphlets and door-to-door canvassing are the traditional modes of election campaign.For those in the fray now, get-togethers are giving an opportunity for one-to-one interaction. It has some practical advantages too. Compared to that of Assembly elections, wards are smaller area wise. Naturally, voters too are fewer in number. This has led the leaders strategise their campaign in a way that allows them to meet each voter personally through door-to-door campaign programmes. “With many voters leaving for work early in the day, it is becoming difficult for contestants to meet every voter.Get-together parties are turning out to be a good option for the candidates in this regard,” scrap dealer Satyanarayana of Matcha Bollarum ward says.What a candidate cannot speak or assure in the open can be done in get-together parties.Apart from the biggest advantage of personal interaction with voters, it gives the candidates a chance to assess in which locality or street he or she is strong.An influential person in a street, colony association leaders or group of government employees or persons working for a private company are approaching the candidates to hold get-togethers.“They are being organised in the night. Food and liquor are also arranged. This is not seen as bribing voters. Instead, it is described as socialising that’s not connected to the polls,” says Giridhar Reddy of Uppal. The opponents too cannot point accusing fingers at them.The contestants would go to these events with their agents in the background at specific timings in the night. They spend a few minutes with the partying locals, seek votes and move to the next get-together party. That saves them a lot of time.It is a bit of a costly affair. But the ultimate goal of every candidate is to emerge victorious and many of them are not hesitant to walk that extra mile to organise get-together parties.