http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/Ghulam-Ali-to-perform-in-Kolkata-on-January-12/article13982754.ece

Ghazal maestro Ghulam Ali will perform in Kolkata on January 12. The event will be held at Park Circus Maidan and the singer will be accompanied by his son, Trinamool Congress national spokesperson Derek O Brien said.In 2015, when Shiv Sena forced the organisers to cancel the concert of the singer in Mumbai, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee was among the first to extend an invitation to the singer.“Ghulam Ali Ji’s concert can be held in Kolkata. We will make all arrangements,” Ms. Banerjee had said then.Earlier in May 2015, the State government felicitated Pakistani politician and grandson of famous poet Allama Iqbal, Waleed Iqbal.How the events unfolded›Ghulam Ali concert called off after Shiv Sena threatsShiv Sena forced the organisers to cancel the Mumbai concert of renowned Pakistani ghazal singer Ghulam Ali. Read more›After Mumbai, singer's Pune concert was also called off.A day after the Shiv Sena succeeded in cancelling legendary Pakistani singer Ghulam Ali’s Mumbai concert, the maestro’s Pune concert, scheduled to be held on October 10 at the city’s Ganesh Kala Krida Manch has also been officially called off. Read more›Delhi, West Bengal invite Ghulam AliAfter the organisers in Mumbai and Pune cancelled Pakistani singer Ghulam Ali’s concert in the wake of threats by the Shiv Sena, he was invited by Delhi and West Bengal governments. Read more›Won't allow Ghulam Ali to perform in Delhi: Shiv SenaShiv Sena striked back again saying that won't allow the singer to perform in Delhi as well. Read more›» Ustad Ghulam Ali is a Pakistani ghazal singer of the Patiala gharana.» Ustad Ghulam Ali is a well-known ghazal singer in Bollywood.» Some of his famous ghazals are : Humko Kisi Ke Gham Ne Maara Chupke Chupke Raat Din  Kal Chaudhvin Ki Raat Thi Chhup Chhupa Ke Piyo›Ghulam Ali says no to India“The November 8 concert (in Delhi) is not happening. After what happened in Mumbai, we don’t want to take any risk. The atmosphere should be right for music. We don’t want to get involved in any kind of politics. So much is happening there, it would not be right for us to come at this time,” Aamir said. Read more