http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Vijayawada/Girls-steal-the-show-at-Krishna-Tarang/article13982644.ece

Krishna Tarang-2015, an annual inter-collegiate cultural festival being organised by the Krishna University, began here on Monday. Excise and B.C. Welfare Minister K. Ravindra has inaugurated the three-day festival on the university campus, which reverberated with drum beats by the girls.Over 1,000 students representing all the affiliated colleges of the university were in the fray in the 26 events, including Indian classical music, dance and creative events.The university campus has witnessed an exhilarating environment with registration of more number of girls for various events.Many participants displayed their talent in vocal and instrumental music competitions while young shutterbugs came up with different themes in the live photography contest.A troupe of girls representing P.B. Siddhartha Group of Colleges stole the hearts of the audience with their performance with drums during the inaugural session.The curtains of the festival raised with Kuchipudi performance by dancer Ch. Rajeswari of Kuchipudi village. Kuchipudi Dance Course Co-ordinator P. Kesava Prasad and his team lent vocal support to Ms. Rajeswari.Clay modelling and Rangoli have added beauty to the festival . Events such as Indian classical (vocal) and classical dance gave a classic touch to the festival, which will conclud on Wednesday.Bowled over by huge response from the students , Mr. Ravindra reminded them on how extracurricular activities would help them to succeed in their chosen path of career.National levelyouth festivalKrishna University in-charge Vice-Chancellor D. Suryachandra Rao announced that the best 32 students would represent the university in the national level youth festival to be held in Mangalore in January.Over 1,000 students representing all the affiliated colleges of the Krishna University are in the fray in 26 events, including Indian classical music, danceand creative events