http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Gitanjali-Selvaraghavan%E2%80%99s-next-on-marital-issues/article14001551.ece

Gitanjali Selvaraghavan’s debut movie Maalai Nerathu Mayakkam will be hitting the screens in Telugu ( Nannu vadili neevu polevule) in the first week of February. The vivacious and articulate director’s take on post marriage relationship and adjustments to life in general has fetched a decent response at the box office. Gitanjali says she and Selva sat together and decided to give it a neutral perspective rather than entirely favouring one of the lead characters. “The narrative plays out from both points of view and we didn’t want the audience to root for just one character. The story had indeed reached the public,” she says.Gitanjali always worked towards being a director. She read the script many years ago but then it was a raw version. She is all praise for newcomers Wamiqa (who gave a recent hit Bhale Manchi Roju) and Balakrishna Kola, she avers, “It piqued my interest, at that time I could see a message that I could convey. When I got the opportunity I pulled it out and worked on it, had the casting in place, did a few more changes to people who are playing it. We wanted a look that would suit the boy. If he sported a funky hair style, you wouldn’t empathise with him. Balakrishna looked very smart. It was very easy to extract performance from Wamiqa Gabbi, she was a bundle of energy. When I first met her I wondered how she would pull off a serious mature character.”Since the script was seven or eight years old, she had to update the sentimental aspect and made it more culturally contemporary. Gitanjali observes the world is changing so fast and she even made the minute changes for instance, the hero was calling on the landline and she had that replaced but how gratifying was her work as an auteur?“I couldn’t have asked for a better script. It is not bold as people make it out to be. The script is real, this is the way people act and react. I am actually working on a story myself, got it ready and looking to collaborate with a good writer and looking to work on it.”Ask her what influence Selva had on her, she says when you are working on someone’s script it is different, because you are trying to do justice to their vision… especially of Selva’s calibre. When he has given his own story and script you want to do complete justice to it.Was it difficult managing work and family? “Selva is supportive, hands on dad — picking and dropping children in school, bathing, changing and puting them to sleep. The kids are attached to my parents.The entire family pitches in, even my brother’s fiancée. Everyone knows it was my dream to direct and I couldn’t have done it confidently without their support.”