http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Thiruvananthapuram/Glitches-natural-in-a-mega-festival-says-DPI/article14018850.ece

The 56{+t}{+h}State School Arts Festival concludes here on Monday. M.S. Jaya, who has spearheaded the organisation of the huge event as the Director of Public Instruction, is happy with its conduct.“There were some glitches, but when you conduct a festival of this magnitude, with some 12,000 participants, you have to expect them,” Jaya told The Hindu . “Everyone associated with the festival worked hard for its success; some of the employees at the Directorate of Public Instruction worked late into night on some days.”ControversiesThere were a few controversies at the festival, triggered by complaints about judges, especially for classical dance events. “We had tried our best to bring the most suitable judges, and it was unfortunate that some competitions were delayed because of the protests staged by some dance teachers and parents,” Ms. Jaya said. “We have to remember that there are 232 events and you need three judges for each of those.”About the incident of five contestants in Kerala Nadanam (Higher Secondary Girls) being denied the chance to compete after reporting late, she said it was a painful decision. “I took that decision because it would have set a wrong precedent had we allowed them to compete,” she said.“Their reasons for not reporting on time were not good enough. I felt sorry for them; they were allowed to perform, though not as part of the competition.”She said she could not take much time to prepare for the festival as she had assumed charge only a few months earlier. “I have conducted other shows, but to conduct an event with so many students was a big challenge,” she said. “The festival has a budget of Rs.2 crore and we need to account for every rupee.”Ms. Jaya, who herself was into music in her student days, said the festival was an ideal platform for the students to present their skills. “It is not just a competition in which they have to battle it out with others and resort to one-upmanship. We wish the students learn this lesson. For, that will be their biggest gain from this festival,” she said.