http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Godavari-water-will-make-Seema-fertile-says-Naidu/article13991913.ece

Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu on Saturday said he was striving to divert Godavari water to Rayalaseema to transform the drought-prone region into a fertile one. Addressing people in Janmabhoomi - Maa Ooru meeting at Alamkhanpalle in Kadapa, Mr. Naidu said his government was forging ahead with a vision and working hard to tide over the fiscal deficit of Rs. 16,000 crore. He exhorted people to work hard like their counterparts in Singapore and Dubai.The Chief Minister released a banner relating to supply of LED bulbs costing Rs. 600 at Rs. 10 and said about 60 to 70 private entrepreneurs were coming forward to manufacture bulbs. Every household would be connected with fibre optic cable under cable network with Rs. 320 crore and telephone, cable and internet facilities would be provided on a monthly charge of Rs. 120, he said.The Chief Minister described himself as being the elder son of 43.74 lakh pensioners in the State. He called for digging Panta Sanjeevani farm ponds to save rain water and salvage crops.Flights would be operated from Kadapa airport to Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Amaravati and the Buggavanka stream in Kadapa town was being beautified, Mr. Naidu said.He appealed to the educated natives who settled abroad to serve their motherland.Equipment worth Rs. 500 crore was procured in government hospitals in the State to provide free medicare to poor persons up to Rs. 2.50 lakh and conduct blood tests, CT scans and other disgnostic tests free of cost, he said.Facilities would be provided to the poor to get treatment with any doctor of their choice. Generic medicine shops were set up to supply qualitative medicines at affordable prices.Mr. Naidu laid foundation stone for Haj House to be built at Ramannapalli in Chennur mandal, 50-bed Cmmunity Health Service hospital at Rajampet estimated to cost Rs. 5.76 crore and 10 other works. He inaugurated 10 social welfare residential school buildings built with Rs. 46.64 crore, seven primary health centre buildings with an outlay of Rs. 8.62 crore and 21 stree shakti bhavan buildings with Rs. 7.95 crore. In all, he laid stones and inaugurated 50 works worth Rs. 107.39 crore.Minister for Human Resource Ganta Srinivasa Rao, Information Minister Palle Raghunatha Reddy, A.P. Legislative Council Deputy Chairman S.V. Satish Kumar Reddy, Rajya Sabha member C.M. Ramesh, Government Whip Meda Mallikarjuna Reddy, A.P. Civil Supplies Corporation chairman M. Linga Reddy, MLC B. Pullaiah, district TDP president R. Srinivasulu Reddy and leaders S. Goverdhan Reddy, S.A. Khaleel Basha, C.M. Suresh Reddy, S. Durgaprasad and others participated.