http://www.thehindu.com/business/Godrej-acquires-majority-stake-in-India-Circus/article14006973.ece

Godrej & Boyce Manufacturing Co. Ltd. to increase its footprint in the lifestyle vertical has acquired 51 per cent stake in India Circus Retail Pvt. Ltd, an online-led retail venture of designer Krsnaa Mehta which offers contemporary and affordable home decor and personal accessories, for an unspecified amount.India Circus is likely to close this financial year with a turnover of over Rs. 15 crore. With this acquisition, Godrej & Boyce plans to strengthen India Circus’ market position as a lifestyle brand both in India and abroad. This acquisition will supplement the business of Godrej Interio, which is into home furniture and interior decoration.India Circus will continue to retain its identity and brand name and it will not be merged with Godrej Interio which has a turnover of over Rs. 2000 crore.While Mr. Mehta, executive director of India Circus Retail will focus on design, Godrej & Boyce will be responsible for operations and marketing of this business. All 35 India Circus employees have been retained.“We saw synergy in what India Circus does and what we do at Godrej Interio. Their philosophy is very similar to our philosophy and we want to supply good design to as many people as possible at affordable prices. India Circus is all about fun, energetic and affordable design. This business will close this financial year with a turnover of Rs. 15 to Rs. 20 crore and we expect it to grow this five times in next two years,” Navroze Godrej, head, strategy and innovation, Godrej & Boyce told The Hindu. He said Godrej & Boyce will invest more in this company in terms of back end, in streamlining supply chains and building its presence online. “We will be treating India Circus as our company now. India Circus is a very niche and exclusive lifestyle brand and this acquisition is one of the steps towards building a robust lifestyle vertical,” he added.Krsnaa Mehta said, “With Godrej this brand can make it to the next level and soon be available not only across India but all over the world.” In addition to its online presence and the existing shop in shop format, India Circus will now have presence in over 50 Godrej Interio retail outlets across 20 cities. The brand will expand offline presence at airports and Westside stores .Anil Mathur, COO, Godrej Interio, said, “We see a very strong overlap between Godrej Interio and India Circus consumers and distribution channels. There is an overall increase in the offline and online purchase of household furniture and home accessories which makes this partnership very appropriate.”“It is not only interior but elements that make your life exciting. And this is why we feel India Circus will add to our lifestyle products,” said Mr. Mathur.The product range of India Circus includes mugs, cushion covers, gift items, photo frames, wrist watches, stoles, wall art and mobile covers to name a few.