http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Going-the-extra-mile/article14015931.ece

‘Running for charity’ is a common term today amongst runners, and there are a number of doubts and myths surrounding the same. To put it simply, a run for charity is one in which you dedicate your race (irrespective of distance) towards raising funds for a cause. The following points will help you make your run meaningful.Identify a causeThis is the first and most crucial decision you need to make. Ensure you are passionate about the cause and have a genuine interest towards the field you want to work with, be it education of underprivileged children, cancer survivors, or women’s empowerment. The more you are emotionally moved by the cause, the easier the fundraising.Identify NGOsOnce you know what you are raising funds for, do a thorough research on the NGO’s work in the particular field, and ensure you develop a good personal connect with the NGO and the people working in it.Remember, unless you are convinced about the integrity and sincerity of the NGO, you will not be able to appeal to donors. You can go one step further and spend time volunteering and working with the people who are going to benefit from your fundraiser, to understand more about the cause.Set a targetDiscuss with the NGO on which project you can help with, and decide on the amount you want to raise. Don’t be too conservative while doing this, as you will be surprised at the large hearts of your friends and family. Goal-based fundraising is a great way for you to ensure you plan your campaign well.Set up a fundraising pageThere are a number of simple crowdfunding sites that help you set up your fundraiser page. Provide as much information as possible about your campaign and cause.The more the information and photographs provided, the more the campaign will resonate with people. Make sure the payment gateway can accept out-of-India donations too.Tap your networkThe real work starts now. It is time to share information about your campaign to all your contacts and encourage them to donate generously. Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and Whatsapp are great ways to generate interest around your campaign. Sometimes, it is good to be shameless! Also don’t forget good old email. A nice personalised, old-fashioned email can go a long way in helping you reach your target amount.Follow upThis is the final aspect of your campaign and the most important too. You should reach out and write to each and every person who donated to your campaign, irrespective of the amount donated, and keep them informed on the success of your run and the total funds raised. The details of how the funds were put to use will give donors the satisfaction of being involved in a good cause in their own small way.A run gives you so much in life — positivity, health, happiness, adrenaline, confidence. Isn’t it time to give back something? Run your next race for charity.About Chennai RunnersChennai Runners is a passionate group of runners, with 18 chapters across the city. They periodically organise various running events, across the city including the marquee marathon event in December. More about Chennai Runners at https://www.facebook.com/groups/chennairunners/