http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Vijayawada/GoI-Godavari-Mega-Aqua-Food-Park-will-boost-shrimp-exports/article14024564.ece

The Godavari Mega Aqua Food Park which was coming up at Tundurru village in West Godavari district with international standards will boost up shrimp exports from Andhra Pradesh, said project directors Cherukuwada Sri Ranganadha Raju and Uddaraju Kasi Viswanadha Raju. The 16,000-tonne capacity (processing per year) project is joint venture of Government of India (GoI) and the Godavari Mega Aqua Food Park, they said.Speaking to the newsmen here on Tuesday, Mr. Ranganadha Raju said some leaders are trying to provoke the locals and stop construction of the project by creating rumours on releasing pollution. But, the project was started only after taking permission from Tundurru Panchayat, Irrigation, Revenue, Electricity and the Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board (APPCB). The management had conducted grama sabhas twice and collected the opinion of the locals in setting up the project and there was no resentment. Land acquisition was done by paying Rs 10 to Rs. 15 lakh per acre and many locals were involved in the construction. But, some leaders created trouble at the site on January 22 in which three policemen and a few villagers were injured, the director.Assuring to take up development works under Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), Mr. Viswanadha Raju said roads, schools, health centres, bus shelters, drinking water and other facilities would be improved in Tundurru, Jonnalagaruvu and Kamsalipeta villages, once the park become operational. “It is not correct that Godavari Mega Aqua Food Park will create air and water pollution. We are setting up the project with international standards and the stocks would be exported to Thailan, Vietnam, Japan, US and other countries ,” Mr. Viswanadha Raju explained.Government of India, which sanctioned the project, has set a time bound for completing the plant. As the workforce was available in big number in Tundurru and the neighbouring villages, we have selected the village for setting up the food park. The food park has five directors including two officials from GoI, the director said.“We are ready to clarify the doubts, if any, to the villagers and explain the advantages of the food park to them. But, we urge the locals not to create hurdles as we got permission from the government and the court order for taking up construction.Once the project is completed, we can procure stocks from some thousands of farmers in East and West Godavari, Krishna, Guntur and other districts,” the directors said.