http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Goodbye-Starman/article13995942.ece

In all of 50 years that David Bowie sang, acted, dressed and walked as a musician and actor, one thing was certain about him – he was definitely the most eccentric personality to have remained continually relevant in music history. And in the recent years after he returned with a surprise album called The Next Day in 2013, he has clearly remained secretive and meticulous about what he says and does.In what seems too good to be a coincidence, Bowie passed away at the age of 69, following 18 months of battling liver cancer, on January 10, just two days after his 69th birthday and the release of his 25th album Blackstar.An update from his social media account read, “David Bowie died peacefully today surrounded by his family after a courageous 18 month battle with cancer. While many of you will share in this loss, we ask that you respect the family’s privacy during their time of grief.”Bowie’s producer on The Next Day and Blackstar, Tony Visconti, said on Facebook, “He always did what he wanted to do. And he wanted to do it his way and wanted to do it the best way. His death was no different from his life - a work of Art. He made Blackstar for us, his parting gift. I knew for a year this was the way it would be. I wasn’t, however, prepared for it. He was an extraordinary man, full of love and life. He will always be with us. For now, it is appropriate to cry.”It is even eerier that Bowie sang “Lazarus” in his new album, referring to the biblical saint who was resurrected to life after four days. With the music video littered with references to death and lyrics such as “Look up, I’m in heaven” that clearly denoted that this was his swansong. All this is not surprising for a man who last performed live in 2006 and never wished to perform live again. In the last decade, Bowie had become a recluse – resorting to notes to give fans updates and declining all interviews.Even then, his 1970s androgynous/gender neutral alter ego of Ziggy Stardust definitely made him stuff of legend, not just for creating music, but for creating art that continues to be a marvellous discovery for each generation. Bowie turned the prevalent glam rock and metal scene on its head with his Ziggy avatar and went on to star in films such as The Man Who Fell to Earth and The Prestige. And like most creators of spaced out music, he never slowed down or settled – roping in ambient music pioneer Brian Eno for hit albums such as Low and Heroes.Everyone from British Prime Minister David Cameron to Kanye West paid their tributes over social media as they woke to the news of Bowie’s death. West tweeted, “David Bowie was one of my most important inspirations, so fearless, so creative, he gave us magic for a lifetime.”Cameron added via his Twitter profile, “I grew up listening to and watching the pop genius David Bowie. He was a master of re-invention, who kept getting it right. A huge loss.”As the world reacts with shock and sadness, there was also nostalgia and gratefulness over the fact that they were lucky to be alive in the same lifetime as Bowie. The likes of Bowie and his many avatars will now be a part of history, hopefully discovered time and time over in the coming years.