http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Good-response-from-students-teachers-and-parents-to-The-Hindu-Young-World-Quiz/article13987446.ece

The 16{+t}{+h}edition of The Hindu Young World Quiz held at the Samskrutika Bhavan here on Thursday evoked an overwhelming response from students, teachers and parents.Along with a higher turnout, the event had students participating in the programme with full enthusiasm. Being well organised and of higher standards, The Hindu Young World Quiz drew appreciation from all quarters. Quizmaster V.V. Ramanan was at his best while putting the general knowledge of students to test during the different rounds of quizzing that went on for close to three hours.The participating children enjoyed the programme, particularly during the interactive audience session where the quizmaster posed the question to the entire audience and the winner was given a prize.Mr. Ramanan’s bouquet of questions contained those on different subjects, including sports, history, literature, music, science and technology, mythology and geography.The preliminary test was followed by interactive sessions and the children were randomly selected, for answers. A total of six teams made it to the final rounds with better scores in the preliminary test.During the finals too, other students who couldn’t make it to the finals, got a chance to win prizes as the quizmaster passed on the questions which remained unanswered by the finalists to the audience.Parents and teachers who were witness to the enthusiastic participation by their wards commended the initiative by The Hindu . Ravi Bhat, teacher from JSS Manjunatheshwara English Medium School, Hubballi, said that it was a very nice and professionally organised programme. The questions were varied and helped students increase their general knowledge. Students will have multiple benefits from participating in such programmes, Mr. Bhat said.Similarly, Sudha Bhat, a parent from Sirsi, said that such programmes were useful for students. It helped them to have a broader idea about big quiz events and to learn new things, Ms. Bhat added.