http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Good-response-to-outreach-campaign-at-Tirurangadi/article13993461.ece

Newly formed Tirurangadi municipality has launched a campaign to ensure people’s welfare by reaching out to them through camps and melas in their neighbourhoods.The campaign titled ‘Janakshemam, Janakeeyam’ has won widespread appreciation.The campaign, which began last week, will continue until January 30.Hundreds of people opened zero-balance bank accounts in bank melas conducted at Kariparamba, Chemmad, Tirurangadi, Kakkad, Chullippara, and Venniyoor last week. “People responded positively to the bank melas, especially as government pension schemes are now being given through bank accounts,” said municipal chairperson K.T. Raheeda.Banks take partBanks such as State Bank of Travancore, Kerala Gramin Bank, Catholic Syrian Bank, Indian Overseas Bank, Canara Bank, Federal Bank, South Indian Bank, and District Cooperative Bank took part in the mela. Most people who made use of the mela were beneficiaries of different pensions. “We could help people without any issues or delay. Opening a new account at the mela will take only a few minutes for pensioners,” said standing committee chairman Iqbal Kallungal. Apart from municipal councillors and bank employees, social workers from Tirurangadi too helped the people at the mela.Pension campsFollowing the success of the bank mela, the municipality is planning to hold pension camps from January 18.Camps will be held at Pathinarungal, Kakkad, Tirurangadi, Chullippara, Thrikkulam, and Kachadi before January 30.“We are joining hands with the Social Security Mission to make positive interventions amongst the differently abled,” said Ms. Raheeda. A medical camp for the differently abled will be conducted at Government UP School, Thrikkulam, on Friday. “We will issue identity cards to them at the camp,” she said.Ms. Raheeda said the municipality had set a goal to ensure that all beneficiaries get their pension amount on time without any difficulties.