http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Good-response-to-BIFFes-registration/article14013281.ece

The response to the 8th edition of Bengaluru International Film Festival (BIFFes), which will be held simultaneously in Bengaluru and Mysuru from January 28, is picking up with over 200 registrations so far.Registration is mandatory to attend the festival and watch films screened as part of the festival. It is the first time that Mysuru is hosting BIFFes, which till last year was hosted only in Bengaluru.About 140 films will be screened in four screens at INOX multiplex in Mall of Mysore here for seven days starting January 29.A.R. Prakash, Deputy Director, Department of Information and Public Relations, Mysuru, who is coordinating the festival here, told The Hindu that 20 films will be screened daily with five films per screen.Mr. Prakash said 1,000 registrations would be permitted since the combined seating capacity of four screens was around 1,200. The registration fee for students, senior citizens, film society members and film personalities was Rs. 300 and the fee for others was Rs. 600. “The initial response is good and we hope to get more registrations in the days ahead,” he said.The registration will be done at the Vartha Bhavan on Dhanwantri Road here from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. and from 5.30 p.m. to 7.30 p.m. at Mall of Mysore.“The seats at the screens will not be reserved as it is on first-cum-first-served basis. If one hall is full, the delegates have to move to another hall where the seats are vacant,” he said, adding that 200 seats, in all four screens, will be reserved for invitees and media persons.Among the registrations, the number of students and senior citizens was more, Mr. Prakash said.Particularly, the students from journalism departments were registering in bulk as they had been asked to submit a report to their departments after seven days of the festival, he said. Like in the previous edition, the films will be screened under contemporary cinema of world; country focus: Mexico, Iran and Turkey; directors’ retrospectives: Istvan Szabo of Hungary and Nils Malmros of Denmark; artist retrospective: Dr. B. Saroja Devi; Dada Saheb Phalke Award Winners’ Vintages: Mrinal Sen, Adoor Gopalakrishnan and tributes: Siddalingaiah and K.S.L. Swamy (Ravee), the release said.