http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Good-morning-preacher/article14000377.ece

Chalk N Duster (Hindi)Director: Jayant GilatkarStarring: Shabana Azmi, Juhi Chawla, Divya Dutta, Zarina Wahab, Richa Chaddha, Girish Karnad, Jackie Shroff, Rishi Kapoor, Arya BabbarThe most amazing thing about Chalk N Duster is how it manages to put together a stalwart cast for the tiny film that it is. This set of seasoned actors is also the only reason why the film turns out to be more watchable than it actually is.Chalk N Duster is about the commercialisation of a noble profession called teaching. Relevant subject, sincere aim but the telling is as old-fashioned as it can get with dollops of melodrama and stereotypes strewn all over. If earnestness and sentimentality could kill, then this film is a perfect example of how.Things are firmly set in black and white in the world of Mumbai’s Kantaben School. On the one hand, you have an ambitious, new school principal Kamini Gupta (Divya Dutta), who wants to make the school upmarket for the kids of the rich and the famous and wants to do away with the outmoded ways of the old teachers. She is relentlessly evil and does mean things like taking away chairs of teachers, making them stand for long hours while teaching. When asked why her answer is: “I don’t give explanations; I take action.” On the other hand are the old teachers Vidya and Jyoti (Shabana Azmi and Juhi Chawla), who are unbelievably good. The representational clichés are laughable: the evil teacher sports a smart, short haircut and is snazzily dressed; the good ones are modestly attired. Even their names — Kamini as against Vidya and Jyoti — give away as to who is good and bad.What’s also interesting is how TV news that has become the new age villain is also turning out to be a cure-all in contemporary Hindi cinema. The resolution is easy and simplistic: go to the electronic media and start a movement, a Teacher Bachao Andolan of sorts. The protracted finale has the teachers give an exam. Things get reduced to a contest with Rs. 5 crore at stake.It’s the actors who breathe life and a modicum of nuance into the flat characters they are saddled with. Be it Divya, who lends a rare poise to her vampish turn, or Shabana and Juhi who, with their dignified presence and an easy camaraderie, stop you from heading to the exit door. In fact, they leave you with the few genuine moments to remember: Shabana’s relationship with her husband Girish Karnad, Juhi’s filmi speech on the rights of teachers.The confrontations between the forces of good and evil bring some energy and life to the screen but not quite enough and not for very long. For comic relief, there’s the hammy Arya Babbar as the Kantaben School chairperson who gives the audience a few laughs,NAMRATA JOSHI