http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/tamil-nadu/Good-response-to-first-ever-alumni-meeting-held-at-RIVER/article13994945.ece

The Puducherry Government run-Rajiv Gandhi Institute Of Veterinary Education and Research held its first RIVER Alumni Meet which saw 80 alumni and their families participating, with some of them coming from as far as the US, UK and Ethiopia, said the institute in a press release.This is the first time an alumni meet is being held since the first batch of students graduated in 1999, and was thus a special occasion.So far, 17 batches of undergraduate students and 8 batches of postgraduate students have earned their degrees here. Participants discussed about ways to give back to the institute and society at large.Office-bearers for the alumni association were also elected.Dean B. Ramesh Kumar, in his address, expressed happiness at the large turnout. Participants were entertained by a performance by drummer Trilok Swaminathan.The meet was also attended by Chairman of Pondicherry Veterinary College Society S. Velmurugan and faculty members.‘Take venture route to improve Villupuram’Women students were asked to transform Villupuram into a developed district by becoming entrepreneurs during the prize distribution ceremony for an essay competition on ‘Preventive Vigilance as a tool for good governance’ held at the Theivanai Ammal College, Villupuram.T. Swaminathan, Assistant General Manager, Indian Bank, Villupuram, advised students on preventive and punitive vigilance measures to create a corruption-free society, said a press release.He emphasised on the need for adopting a humanitarian approach while delivering official duties, citing real life examples.R. Rajendran, Lead District Manager, Villupuram, explained the need for vigilance and the requisites of good governance.Mr. Swaminathan distributed the first prize of Rs. 2,000 to S. Arthi, a student of M.A. English, Rs. 1,500 as second prize to R. Arathi, a student of Bachelors of Computer Applications and third prize of Rs.1,000 to K. Iswarya, a student of M.A. English.Showing the way forsuccessExtending help to Class XII students before their board examination, the Christ College of Engineering and Technology and Christ Institute of Technology jointly hosted ‘Vettrikku Vazhikaati’ at Pitchaveeranpet, Puducherry.The programme, attended by 1,650 school students, was aimed at guiding them to score high marks in the examination.Cheques for Rs. 25, 000 each were also distributed to select students of the Christ College of Engineering and Technology towards their tuition fees through the Helping Drops initiative by M. Ramadass, former Director of Studies at Pondicherry University.Students raise cropsA total of 114 students of third year B.Sc Agriculture of Adhiparasakthi Agricultural College, Kalavai took up agricultural activities for 105 days as part of their course on crop production.The course aimed to give practical know-how for students on raising crops and understand the difficulties faced by farmers in cultivating crops.They adopted System of Rice Intensification (SRI) technique that gives more yield when compared to conventional method. The students raised the mat nursery for rice using banana leaf to raise the crop in the main field of about 0.52 hectares on the college premises.The students raised two varieties of rice following the SRI technique.They expect a yield of about 9.600 and 14.400 tonnes/hectare.National symposium on micro organismsOver 300 persons, including students and research scholars from various colleges and universities participated in the National level symposium on “Prevalence of multi drug resistance in micro organisms” conducted at Adhiparasakthi College of Arts and Science recently.The symposium was organised by the Post Graduate and Research Department of Microbiology of the college.S. Balaji, technical officer-A, National Institute for Research in Tuberculosis, Indian Council of Medical Research, Chennai explained the difficulty in treating multi drug resistant TB and its prevalence and spoke on how TB was the leading killer of HIV patients.S. Jaganathan, research officer, Department of Tissue Culture Anti Rabies Vaccine, Pasteur Institute of India, Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Coonoor and Madhan Sugumar, research associate, Department of Microbiology, Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research, Puducherry delivered lectures during the symposium.A poster presentation competition was also conducted. A. Mohamed Sadiq, principal of the college and T. Paneerselvam, head, Department of Microbiology were present, a press release said.(Reporting by Annie Philip and Serena Josephine M.)