http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/sport/Gopi-hits-jackpot-on-first-attempt/article14003693.ece

Thonackal Gopi is still coming to terms with attaining Olympic qualification after running the marathon for the first time in his life. For an athlete taking a serious look at sport after joining the Army, training with top athletes is the high point. But finishing ahead of some of them in an international-level competition is a strange feeling.Gopi came with his training partners for the Mumbai Marathon 2016 to boost their timings. Asked to be the pace-setter for faster distance-runners eyeing Olympic qualification for Rio, his role was like a member of the support staff with the Army Sports Institute (ASI) group of runners.Like winning a lottery jackpot at the first attempt, Gopi’s time of 2:16:15 earned him second place in the Indians category, and 11th overall in men’s marathon, which included some African distance runners. “I run with Nitendra Singh, Kheta Ram and others during training, so when my coach (Surender Singh Bhandari) asked me to set the pace for them and move out at 30 kms, I was happy to oblige.” He set off without anything on his mind. “At the 30 km point, I felt my body was okay and decided to keep going and try to complete the marathon.”Buying shoes with prize moneyThe voyage into the unknown earned him Rs. 4,00,000 and a bonus of Rs. 7,500 for coming under the Indian course record. The prize money will be used to buy running shoes,” said the ASI athlete.Ethiopian Abraham Girma (12), Kenyan David Kiyeng (13), and South African Lungile Gongqa (14) finished behind Gopi, and two well-known army runners Kheta Ram (15) and Elam Singh (16). “I took part in athletics; it is only after getting training at ASI that I can refer to improvement.”Gopi, from Mar Athanasius College, Kothamangalam, looked at sport as an outlet for his energy. Getting into the army as a general recruit after college gave this farmer’s son a serious look at athletics, and he then got drafted into ASI.The three marathoners will head to Ooty next for high-altitude training, carrying with them medals, certificates and respect.