http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/Government-slams-civic-bodies-for-%E2%80%98total-failure%E2%80%99/article14025372.ece

hief Minister Arvind Kerjriwal has lashed out at the three municipal corporations for ‘total failure’ and suggested fresh polls for the civic bodies.The statement from Mr. Kejriwal came after garbage was not removed from several areas in the city as sanitation workers are on strike due to non-payment of salaries.“Management of an organisation, which can’t pay salaries to employees, doesn’t hv rt to continue. MCD shud be dissolved. Hold fresh election [sic]” the Chief Minister tweeted.At present, Mr. Kejriwal is undergoing naturopathy treatment in Bengaluru for chronic cough and diabetes. The Delhi government is being headed by Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia in his absence.On Thursday, the protesting sanitation workers dumped garbage outside Manish Sisodia’s residence on Mathura Road. According to Mr. Sisodia, the striking workers were “instigated” to do so.Addressing a press conference, he slammed the office bearers of the civic bodies for engaging in “garbage” politics.“We paid them funds before time without even adjusting the loans amounting to around Rs. 6,000 crore extended by us. Despite this, the workers are being instigated to throw garbage in front of our houses and offices,” Mr. Sisodia said.In an official statement, the Delhi government said that the corporations had bungled money as all the funds earmarked for the year 2015-16 had been disbursed.The corporations, meanwhile, have admitted that they received Rs. 2,026 crore under the non-plan head for all three civic agencies.“It is clear that 90 per cent of the non-planned allocation is for payment of salaries. The basic question is why the MCD employees have not been paid their salaries?” he asked.The Deputy Chief Minister also claimed that the municipal corporations had “failed” to collect tax dues amounting to Rs. 1,250 crore, purportedly owed by the Delhi Development Authority (DDA).Referring to the Mayors and other elected office bearers of the corporations, he said “those who cannot run the municipal corporations, cannot pay salaries to the employees and fail to manage accounts need not hold their posts.”The government had earlier proposed auditing the accounts of the corporations as they are reeling under financial crisis. “I appeal to the Central government to dissolve the municipal corporations and hold elections. This team has failed to keep Delhi clean, pay salaries to employees and keep accounts,” Mr. Sisodia said.The corporations have been accused of engaging in ‘garbage politics’