http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Government-criticised-for-not-taking-up-drought-relief-work/article14002477.ece

Pralhad Joshi, president of the State unit of Bharatiya Janata Party, has said that the Congress government in State has failed to take up relief work in the drought-affected areas in a planned manner.Mr. Joshi was speaking after inaugurating a meeting of the BJP activists here on Saturday to discuss the preparations for zilla and taluk panchayat elections.The BJP-led National Democratic Alliance government at the Centre had released Rs. 1,240 crore to Karnataka for taking up relief work in drought-affected areas. It was unfortunate that the State government had failed to prepare an action plan for utilising the funds, he said.Many villages in the State were facing drinking water crisis. It was unfortunate that the officials of the Department of Rural Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation did not have basic information about the number of human habitations that were in the grip of drinking water crisis. Farmers were yet to be compensated for the crop loss they had suffered owing to scarcity of rain. People in rural areas were unhappy with the way the Congress government had handled the situation arising out the drought. People would teach a lesson to the Congress in the forthcoming zilla and taluk panchayat elections, he said.The administrative machinery had collapsed in the State owing to differences within the Congress. Minister for Home G. Parameshwara, who hailed from Tumakuru district, had openly expressed displeasure against Chief Minister Siddaramaiah for making him district in-charge Minister of Chikkamagaluru. As Mr. Siddaramaiah was busy clearing the differences among party leaders, the pace of implementation of development work in the State was not on expected levels, he said.Mr. Joshi called upon the BJP activists to seek votes for zilla and taluk panchayat election by highlighting th achievements of NDA government at the Centre.The BJP-led NDA government had succeeded in fulfilling its pre-poll promise of controlling the inflation. Programmes of the Union government, including Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana launched to provide access to banking services to people from all strata of society, the Swachh Bharath Abhiyan had evoked excellent response from the public, he said.Leader of Opposition in Legislative Council K.S. Eshwarappal; B.Y. Raghavendra, Shikaripur MLA; Visweshwar Hegde Kageri, Sirsi MLA; and M.B. Bhanuprakash, MLC, were present.