http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Vijayawada/Government-wary-of-criticism-changes-tack/article13999035.ece

The State government has declared that a temporary capital will be constructed in one of the 29 villages in the capital region instead of Mangalagiri, as announced earlier. The decision has raised several eyebrows.The change of plan indicates that the government wanted to ensure some semblance of activity in the capital region. It is a known fact that there has been no progress in capital construction since Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone on October 22, 2015. There are also apprehensions that the “Centre may not cooperate” in Capital building though the State wants to complete construction of the Secretariat and the Assembly before 2018.Secondly, there are technical glitches involved in opening government offices in Medha Towers. The government also has to de-notify the Information Technology SEZ. The matter, however, has to be cleared by the Central government. And, it may send wrong signals to the IT industry at a time when the government is trying to woo global IT companies to set up shop in the capital region.In addition, the AP Capital Region Development Authority (CRDA) is yet to take the Land Pooling Scheme (LPS) to a logical conclusion. Majority of farmers who parted with their lands for the capital city project did not sign the 9.8 Form pertaining to developed plots. Though, initially, farmers were keen on cooperating with the government, there was a lull in the recent past, as there is confusion over the allotment of developed plots.The government even ordered employees to relocate to the capital region before June this year. People in the capital city expects the government to generate employment. So, the government will have to ensure enough activity in the Capital area to keep the momentum generated during the foundation stone laying ceremony.Municipal Administration Minister P. Narayana maintained that the CRDA would utilise the temporary capital infrastructure for commercial purposes in future, and that there would be no underutilisation of funds. Buildings, including Medha Towers, will also be put to use, he said.There is a view that the government had made a hullabaloo over Medha Towers at Gannavaram and Laila Complex opposite the Sub-Collector’s office in the city. A committee headed by IAS officer Jawahar Reddy had identified some buildings in the city and Guntur for the Darbar shift. However, the government has not implemented the Jawahar Reddy Committee report except inspecting the buildings identified by it. The government, instead, announced it would construct the temporary capital at the Singapore Township (Mangalagiri).