http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Government-urged-to-initiate-steps-to-conserve-Kaanu-forests/article14004296.ece

The Vrukshalaksha Andolana, Karnataka, an organisation for environment protection, has urged the State government to initiate measures to conserve the Kaanu forest in Malnad region.A team of experts comprising president of the andolana Ananth Hegde Ashisara, T.V. Ramachandra from the Indian Institute of Science and environmentalists Nagesh Hegde and Keshav Korse visited the Kaanu forests, adjacent to Baniga, Keshavapura, Batte Mallappa, Marutipura and Alageri Mandri villages in Hosanagar taluk, and the forest near Ulavi, Induvalli and Kaanbailu villages in Sorab taluk recently to study their present status. The teams held discussions with the officials of the Department of Forest and local farmers on the conservation of Kaanu forests. After visiting the villages, a meeting was held at Sagar on the conservation of Kaanu forests.In a press release issued here, Mr. Ashisara said that Kaanu was a unique type of forest that spread over the land belonging to the forest and revenue departments. The Kaanu forests were rich in bio-diversity, but were being encroached upon in recent times. A survey on the extent of Kaanu forests should be undertaken and their boundaries fixed. The work of digging trenches should be undertaken around the Kaanu forests to prevent further encroachment, he said.In the past, the Kaanu forests, also known as Devarakadu or sacred, groves were managed and conserved by local community. The Department of Forest should involve the local community in the conservation of Kaanu. The village forest committees should be formed in villages adjacent to Kaanu forests. Training should be given to local community on collecting the minor forest produce from Kaanu forests in a sustainable and scientific manner.The money available with local area development funds of MPs and MLAs should be used for fencing the Kaanu forests, planting saplings and rejuvenating the water bodies there, he said.