http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/Government-mulling-options-for-%E2%80%98Incredible-India%E2%80%99/article13990690.ece

Actor Aamir Khan’s exit from the Incredible India campaign has not only set off a controversy after BJP MP Manoj Tiwari questioned his patriotism at a closed-door parliamentary panel meeting but also presents a conundrum over who should be Mr. Khan’s replacement.Top sources in the Tourism Ministry told The Hindu that the choice coalesced around Amitabh Bachchan, but there was another, more dominant view that there should be a female celebrity as brand ambassador. “Apart from that, there is also a line of thinking that a sports icon could be considered for the position,” a top source said.Actress Priyanka Chopra is a strong contender for female brand ambassador. “The Ministry has been mulling this over, and the new proposal came in just a couple of days ago. Whoever is chosen, the controversy over Aamir Khan has to be combated,” said the source.Mr. Tiwari denied that he had questioned Mr. Khan’s patriotism, but admitted that he objected to his continuation as brand ambassador. The chairman of the standing committee on tourism and Trinamool Congress MP, K.D. Singh, asked Tourism Secretary Vinod Zutshi to give details of just who would be the brand ambassador and how much the person would be paid by the Ministry for the assignment. The report is to be submitted in 10 days.Tourism Minister Mahesh Sharma told The Hindu that the Ministry was finalising the names and modalities for this. “We are still looking at various options; nothing has been finalised,” he said. He did admit that there “were proposals” for multiple brand ambassadors, but nothing was finalised.BJP MP denies questioning Aamir’s patriotismWith the > exit of Aamir Khan as the brand ambassador for the ‘Incredible India’ campaign, Tourism Minister Mahesh Sharma told The Hindu that the Ministry was finalising the names and even modalities for the new face of the campaign. He said there “were proposals” for multiple brand ambassadors.Meanwhile BJP MP Manoj Tiwari denied that he had questioned Mr. Khan’s patriotism at a closed door parliamentary panel, but admitted that he objected to his continuation as brand ambassador.The chairman of the standing committee on tourism and Trinamool Congress MP, K.D. Singh, has asked Tourism Secretary Vinod Zutshi to give details of who would be the brand ambassador and how much the person would be paid by the Ministry for the assignment. The report is to be submitted in 10 days.Also read: > Incredible India Campaign: Amitabh first choice to replace Aamir Khan