http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Kochi/Government-intervention-reins-in-cost-of-dialysis/article14004997.ece

: With the availability of more dialysis units in the government sector, the cost of dialysis has come down drastically in the private sector.Four institutions, including the Fort Kochi hospital that began dialysis service on Sunday, are in Ernakulam district out of the total 12 government hospitals across the State where such services are being offered.However, the health services, which is offering the facility does not have nephrologists on their rolls, except for one posted in the Ernakulam District General Hospital.The cost of dialysis that was in the range of Rs.1,500- 2000 in the private sector earlier has now come down to as low as Rs.1,000. Most patients with kidney problems go for at least two dialyses a week, though for better quality of life three dialyses are suggested.Besides the charge for dialysis, patients also have monthly recurring charges of Rs. 1300-1500 for medicines and other accessories for dialysis.Burdened with the cost of dialysis, many poor patients usually cut down on required dialysis, thus suffering much, said Dr. N. Vijayakumar, who had steered the first dialysis in the government sector at the Aluva district hospital. Here, dialysis is offered at a subsidised rate of Rs. 200 and free for BPL patients.Aluva hospital, starting with 11 machines, five years ago, has 23 machines now. The District General Hospital followed with 21 machines. Perumbavur Hospital had started a dialysis unit about two months ago and now Fort Kochi, which has five plus one standby units.Tripunithura taluk hospital is also all set to have a dialysis unit.The increasing facilities in the public sector would wean more poor patients away from the private sector and would also help the poor to have better quality of life by having the required two or three dialyses per week.These patients who get timely dialysis would be able to take up small jobs too, said Dr. Vijayakumar. Since dialysis is prescribed for end-stage renal diseases, the patients have to learn to live with the condition or go in for a transplant, which is again a major financial challenge for the poor.