http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Gowda-to-write-to-Modi-on-anomalies-in-Central-schemes-for-farmers/article13981649.ece

The former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda will write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to rectify anomalies in schemes launched by the Union government for farmers.“I am opposed to any scheme that goes against the interests of farmers. I will write to Mr. Modi to make suitable changes in those schemes,” he said.Mr. Gowda said he would oppose the new agriculture insurance policy if it proposed to increase the premium amounts to be paid by farmers.PlansHe would also oppose plans to privatise the management of the online agro produce market as it would only help corporate companies and not farmers. Mr. Gowda said he would write to the Prime Minister to reconsider such decisions.Grants for HKHe, however, did not clearly say if he would take up the issue of the Centre deciding to discontinue the backward region grant fund given to backward districts in Hyderabad Karnataka and other regions in the State. Mr.Gowda said that Chief Minister Siddharamaiah should realise that the development of HK region was the responsibility of the State government too.The State government had failed to ensure proper utilisation of funds meant for the region, he alleged.Lokayukta“No one can reform the Lokayukta. The institution has been systematically destroyed,” Mr Gowda said. Appointment of a good judge with integrity would also not help it, he said.Mr. Gowda claimed that he was responsible for the appointment of Santosh Hegde as the Lokayukta, in spite of opposition from the BJP.“I have asked Mr. Modi to reduce foreign travel and to focus on internal problems. Farmers are committing suicide, irrigation schemes are suffering due to the reduction in Central funds, half the country is suffering form drought and prices of everyday commodities are increasing. It is time you focus on these issues, I told him. I also told him to utilise the political opportunity awarded to you by the people who were disgusted with the Congress and by the failure of regional parties that failed to unite,” he said.Mr. Gowda said that the Janata Dal (Secular) would face the zilla panchayat and taluk panchayat elections on its own and would not enter into alliances.Money powerHe said that the JD(S) had lost the Legislative Council seat from Hassan and fared badly in other places as elections to the Upper House had been reduced to a game of money power.“I like to think that we lost because the others spent huge money while we lacked resources,” Mr. Gowda said. The four JD(S) nominees who had won, had done so based on their own strengths, with minimal support from the party, he said.