http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/Green-body-pulls-up-NCR-towns/article13979785.ece

Uttar Pradesh and Haryana were pulled up by the Environment Pollution Control Authority (EPCA) on Saturday for not taking harsh action against polluters, at a time that Delhi is trying to reduce vehicular emissions with its odd-even plan.Supreme Court-appointed EPCA chairperson Bhure Lal reiterated various Court directions for cutting air pollution at a meeting with representatives from Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Rajasthan.ssThe National Green Tribunal had in April 2015 ordered a Rs.5,000 fine on anyone caught burning waste — both green or household — and a Rs.50,000 penalty on construction sites causing dust pollution.Representatives of Noida and Greater Noida in U.P. and Gurgaon in Haryana were pulled up for laxity in implementation of the two orders, while Delhi, which has been issuing fines, was asked to intensify the drive.“U.P. and Haryana were unable to give the full details of the number of challans. They were instructed to follow the orders strictly. Rajasthan was told to ensure the diversion of traffic not meant for Delhi,” said Mr. Lal.He added that all NCR towns were ordered to crackdown on polluters, big and small. In Delhi, the government carried out inspections at about 100 constructions sites and found 38 of those flouting dust-control norms. According to government sources, there should have been 30,000 fines so far in the entire NCR.The Delhi government said in a statement on Saturday that areas bordering U.P. had higher pollution levels compared to Central Delhi, showing that NCR States needed to act on pollution control measures. With congestion on the borders due to trucks entering Delhi and industries in Noida, Ghaziabad, Faridabad and Gurgaon, air pollution in the NCR cannot be delinked according to State boundaries.Activists have been demanding an NCR-wide pollution-control strategy for years now.“Delhi’s odd-even plan is a good start, but it will not have a drastic impact. We need a regional action plan in order to have real change,” said Greenpeace campaigner Sunil Dahiya.