http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Madurai/GRH-performs-endoscopic-spine-surgery-first-in-State/article14001333.ece

In what is reportedly a first among government hospitals in the State, doctors at Government Rajaji Hospital here have recently performed an endoscopic spine surgery on a 36-year-old woman who was suffering from spinal disc herniation (slipped disc).Dean M.R. Vairamuthu Raju said here on Thursday that the surgery, which could have cost at least Rs. 5 lakh at private hospitals, was done free of cost with an equipment recently bought through District Rural Development Agency’s ‘Namakku Naame’ scheme.A. Hajira Begum, a tailor from Mela Anuppanadi in Madurai, developed pain in her spine after she met with a minor accident near Keezhavasal two years ago.According to V. Pugalenthi, Head of Orthopaedic Surgery at GRH, Ms. Hajira developed numbness in her left foot causing difficulty in movement. An MRI scan revealed slippage of disc (disc prolapse) at lumbar segment 4 and 5 (L4-L5).“The conventional open surgery would have taken a lot of time for the patient to recover, apart from the possibilities of increased blood loss and pain,” Dr. Pugalenthi said.According to him, the endoscopic procedure, with a two-cm size incision made, was over in around 40 minutes and the patient could walk normally in two days.Dr. B. Sivakumar said that a neuro-monitoring equipment was used to ensure that nerves were not damaged during the endoscopic procedure to fix the slippage. “Moreover, as we can get a closer and magnified look of the disc and nerves in the endoscopic procedure, the precision will be higher,” he said.Medical Superintendent G. Veerasekar said that while endoscopic surgery was more effective, it could not be suggested for everyone. “If the slippage is beyond a certain limit, then an open surgery is inevitable,” he said.Dr. Vairamuthu Raju said that the skill of the doctors mattered more in performing the endoscopic spine surgery than the equipment.“Now that our doctors have done it once, more patients can be treated through the endoscopic procedure,” he said.“The procedure, with a two-cm size incision made, was over in 40 minutes and the patient can walk in two days”