http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Mangalore/Grievances-will-be-resolved-in-a-week-says-administration/article13989310.ece

The Dakshina Kannada district administration on Friday made a fervent appeal to all concerned not to resort to bandhs that may affect life and also Brand Mangaluru. As an alternative to grievance redressal, the administration promised to resolve grievances, if any, within a week of the grievances reaching it.Speaking at a special meeting called to discuss ways and means to prevent bandhs in the district, Deputy Commissioner A.B. Ibrahim said that one’s fundamental right does not confer the right to infringe upon another’s right. Chairing the meeting, district in-charge Minister B. Ramanath Rai said that everyone agrees that a bandh is not desirable.As such, people should develop a mindset against calling for bandhs, he said.The administration further pointed out that the Supreme Court has declared bandh illegal and unconstitutional. Hence, all need to follow the directive.Superintendent of Police S.D. Sharanappa said that over the years the governments have become more responsive and sensitive to issues concerning people and as such, there is no need to resort to bandhs.He promised that the administration would be more responsive.People from a cross-section of society, political parties, religious organisations, trade unions, non-governmental organisations, trade bodies and others attended the meeting on an invitation from the district administration. A majority of the participants expressed displeasure over having bandhs.Poser to administrationHowever, every participant had a question to the administration — what is the other way to wake up the administration from its slumber. The participants argued that a bandh is called for as a last resort when all other attempts, including petitions and protests, have failed to yield the desired results.Minister of State for Youth Empowerment and Sports K. Abhayachandra Jain, Mangaluru City Police Commissioner M. Chandra Sekhar and MLC Ivan D’Souza attended the meeting.