http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/Growing-city-throws-up-daunting-challenges/article13996482.ece

On a Sunday morning, two GHMC workers select a spot on the freshly laid road near S.D. Eye Hospital and start digging. A traffic cop stops by and the workers point out the horridly foul sewerage flowing beside a bakery. The men continue the work and with a few expert strikes of the crowbar, uncover a manhole and pull it aside. It is a clogged sewerage line with a smell that can even make a mortuary worker throw up. Forget Swacch Bharat, forget ‘No manual scavenging’ mantra; what unfolds in front of the shop owners is too gross to be described.Will all this change and Hyderabad become a global and a liveable city once the new team of elected representatives step into the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation office? Difficult to guess. But the ground reality is certainly tough and daunting. The richest municipality in Telangana with an annual budget of Rs. 5,550 crore looks like a lolly, but it will be tough going when the 150 corporators take charge of the city spread over 625 sq km.“Daily they pick up (garbage), but by afternoon it is full,” says the sweet shop owner in front of the kaman (arch) leading to Mitti ka Sher. We have to admit that Hyderabad is fighting a losing battle with garbage. Panchayat Raj Minister K.T. Rama Rao on Wednesday admitted as much when he said that Hyderabad generates about about 5,000 metric tonnes of garbage, of which 4,000 metric tonnes is lifted. Wait a minute, did the minister just say that 1,000 metric tonnes of garbage is not lifted? Yes, he did.In Hyderguda and in most parts of the city, citizens have been receiving Green and Blue garbage bins for waste segregation. “Each vehicle has 600 bins; I have nearly completed the task in this area,” says Bhikshapati, a GHMC staffer, distributing in the area. “We are telling the people who pick up the garbage to create a partition in the middle for dry and wet waste,” he says, sounding unconvinced about his own formulation.If the stink and stench of uncleared garbage is one aspect of the systemic failure of the municipality, the way roads are laid, dug up and re-laid is a scandal. Even in the 21st century, the engineering wing of GHMC has no concept of permanent channels for utility cables with retractable covers. Lay a road, dig up to lay a cable, re-lay the road, dig up to clean a drainage and it is a never ending formula. Last year, the GHMC gave permission for digging open trench on 289.68 kms of roads in the city after accepting a payment of Rs. 39 crore. Now, the GHMC is spending Rs. 337 crore to repair 1,931 km stretches of arterial and inner roads! It is not just safety on the roads where the civic body has no road map to safety.The boom town of Hyderabad with at least 22,000 restaurants, eateries and chai addas has just four food safety inspectors. “The government has sanctioned 26 more posts. So now, we will be better equipped to deal with food hygiene in restaurants,” says Balaji, a gazetted food inspector of GHMC. Interestingly, GHMC officials have taken 379 samples for testing from the time of formation of Telangana and found 60 violations.“I take a 2 km detour when I am going home in the night,” says Ganesh, who lives in West Marredpally. There are others who do similar detours in areas with heavy stray population. An RTI application unearthed the sorry state of affairs recently. The dog neutering and vaccination programme has cost nearly Rs. 25 crore and only 44,100 strays have been treated. In a city with nearly 5 lakh strays, the GHMC has only five dog catching squads.The GHMC is segmented into 18 circles headed by a Deputy Commissioner. The newly-elected corporators will come lower down the pecking order. While each corporator gets Rs. 4.6 crore as discretionary fund for his or her 5-year term, experience shows that most of it remains unutilised. A systemic failure hampers the functioning of the civic body. At the end of the day, the civic body is failing its citizens. Will the GHMC elections fix that? That’s the million dollar question when voters troop into polling booths on February 2.