http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/Groupism-to-the-fore-in-Nirmal-Municipality/article14002617.ece

The suspension of four Nirmal Municipality councillors from the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) for their alleged anti-party activities is known among political circles as having been influenced by Housing Minister A. Indrakaran Reddy. The development is the result of groupism within the ruling party in the Municipality, which has seen the Minister losing his ‘grip’ over the civic body in recent months.Mr. Reddy is not alone in Adilabad district in finding himself in that piquant position, with opponent groups being headed by chairpersons of respective municipalities. Forest Minister Jogu Ramanna, who is also the district in-charge Minister, and Bellampalli MLA Durgam Chinnaiah too are known to be facing similar problem with a section of ruling party councillors in Adilabad and Bellampalli Municipalities going their own way in demanding works.The war between groups of councillors headed by the Ministers and the MLA – Mr. Reddy at Nirmal, Mr. Ramanna at Adilabad and Mr. Chinnaiah at Bellampalli – came in the open a few days back when the Municipal Commissioners at Nirmal and Bellampalli were surrendered. It is being rumoured that the incumbent at Adilabad Municipality is also likely to be surrendered as he too, like his counterparts, is being accused of going along with the Council.“The differences between the Ministers and the MLA and respective Municipal chairpersons cropped up over matters of realty,” an official of the Adilabad Municipality, on conditions of anonymity, said. “The fight is more economic than political,” he quipped.The tussle between Mr. Ramanna’s group and the one headed by Adilabad Municipal chairperson R. Manisha is said to have started after the demolition of a shopping complex in the market area a few months ago.The latter, who was against the demolition, carried on by the Municipality on orders from ‘higher ups’, found herself not being helped by the Minister on the issue.The differences grew in due course, but efforts were made to mediate between the two groups.Two meetings towards bringing rapprochement were held, but the exercise was apparently a failure.The Minister is now being kept in the dark by development works being undertaken in the Municipality.It is being alleged that the works are bad in terms of quality, as contractors are taking advantage of the situation.