http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Growers-in-Chitradurga-reap-bumper-harvest-of-millets/article13979937.ece

Growers in Chitradurga district have successfully cultivated millets on 48,266 hectares (ha) of land in this season and have got a bumper crop. This is significant in view of the heavy losses they incurred in the last four years due to adverse climatic conditions. They have got 10 to 12 quintals as yield per acre this year.Most farmers in the district had switched over to commercial crops such as pomegranate and onion in the last five years and had incurred losses owing to adverse climatic conditions as well as the steep fall in their prices. This year, they decided to grow millets as the requirement of water will be minimum and the investment will be less too.The farmers cultivated millets on 993 ha in Challakere; 3,521 ha in Chitradurga; 4,373 ha in Hiriyur; 31,195 hectares in Hosadurga; 7,807 ha in Holalkere; and 377 ha in Molkalmuru taluks.Last year, the government had announced Rs. 1,800 a quintal as support price for the crop in which Rs. 1,500 was paid by the Union government and the remaining by the State government. But, the growers refused to sell the crop as they expected more support price.This year, however, the Union government has announced a support price of Rs. 1,650 a quintal and the State government has decided to pay Rs. 450. The government has taken steps to open procurement centres at the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee yard in Chitradurga taluk, Chikjajur in Holalkere and Hosaurga. They will function till March 31 this year.These centres would purchase 50 quintals of millets from a person and it is mandatory to bring documents of farm land while selling millets. In order to avoid exploitation by middlemen, the authorities have made arrangements for online payment of bills.The farmers will receive the amount through their bank accounts within a week after selling the crop.Ganganna, a farmer from Hosadurga taluk, said that the farmers in the region had taken up cultivation of millets after they faced frequent power cuts and depletion in the groundwater table.It requires Rs. 21,000 an acre to cultivate the crop.Minimum support price announced by the govt. isRs. 2,100 a quintalProcurement centres opened at three placesPayment will be made through banks