http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Guardian-of-a-royal-heritage/article13978756.ece

(IDUKKI): He is still the gatekeeper of a historical building here, once the summer palace of the last ruling Maharaja of the erstwhile Travancore kingdom.Dharmalingam, 67, has vivid memories of the days when Sree Chithira Tirunal Balarama Varma and his entourage used to visit the palace.It has been 50 years since Dharmalingam, then 17, arrived from his hometown of Cumbom Churulipetty in Tamil Nadu to Peerumade in search of work. But in vain.Later, he chanced to meet the Maharaja, who employed him along with other labourers in the cardamom and tea farms. In due course, he was assigned the job of cleaning the palace and supervision of the movement of tea leaves to the market.Dharmalingam recalls that Queen Sethulaksmi Bai used to come from Changanassery on a cart pulled by horses while Balarama Varma arrived by a royal car. Dharmalingam says there was a royal path exclusively for the movement of the royal family from the summer palace to the Sree Krishna Swami temple at Peerumade.Over the years, the ownership of the building changed hands. The palace and 25 acres surrounding it were purchased by Swami Athuradas after Independence. But Dharmalingam remained its watchman.Now it is owned by an IT company based in Bengaluru and Dharmalingam continues to be its watchman.He says the building is 200 years old and was constructed with materials that were carried on the ropeway, but there is no record to prove it. (It was the tea plantation area of the British and ropeway was the means to carry goods from one place to another). It is estimated that the building was constructed in 1820.There is an assembly hall, central open area, rooms, resting place, kitchen, and a hall to keep farming equipment. The architecture of the building is unique in that it remains warm inside even during extreme winter season.The palace has been the location for many films, including Ariyapedatha Rahasyam , Thavalam , Pilot , Indriyam and Palayam . The building now remains in a decrepit state.