http://www.thehindu.com/business/Industry/Guenter-Butschek-to-lead-Tata-Motors/article14005226.ece

Commercial vehicle maker Tata Motors has announced the appointment of Guenter Butschek, who was with Airbus Group and Daimler, as its Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director.“Mr. Butschek will lead all operations of Tata Motors in India and in international markets including South Korea, Thailand, Indonesia and South Africa. Jaguar Land Rover (JLR) would continue to be managed by its Chief Executive Officer and Director, Dr Ralf Speth, who is also on the Board of Tata Motors,” Tata Motors said in a filing with the stock exchanges.Mr Butschek, 55, is expected to join the company by February 15, 2016.The post of MD and CEO was lying vacant since January 2014 when Tata Motors’ the then Managing Director Karl Slym suddenly died after falling from his hotel room in Bangkok.Following investigation, the Bangkok police said that Slym had committed suicide by jumping to death from his hotel room.Since then the company was under direct supervision of Tata Group Chairman Cyrus Mistry and the day-to-day operations have been handled by two Executive Directors — Mr. Mayank Pareekh handling the Passenger Car business and Mr. Ravi Pisharody handling the Commercial Vehicles division.During his last assignment, Mr. Butschek was at Airbus Group where he served as Chief Operating Officer and Member of the Group Executive Committee. Prior to Airbus, he had worked at Daimler AG for more than 25 years in international automotive management, leading functions like production, industrialisation and procurement.The last role he held was President and Chief Executive Officer of Beijing Benz Automotive Co. Ltd., a joint venture between Daimler AG and Beijing Automotive Industrial Holding in Beijing, China.“Tata Motors is going through an exciting yet challenging phase and Mr Butschek’s appointment comes at an opportune moment. He brings with him rich global experience of growing organizations and developing new markets. I am confident that Mr Butschek’s ability to lead high performing teams will enable our company to achieve sustainable, profitable growth,” Mr. Mistry said in a statement.