http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/Gujarat-Cabinet-reshuffle-on-the-cards/article13990420.ece

Gujarat Chief Minister Anandiben Patel is likely to reshuffle her Ministry after ongoing rejig of the state BJP is over. The putative reshuffle of the State Cabinet will involve induction of new faces having rural connect and background while some prominent members of the Cabinet may find themselves axed in the process. The organisational restructuring of the party unit and the Cabinet has apparently been necessitated by the party's rout in the recently held panchayat polls in which the ruling party has suffered heavily in Saurashtra and north Gujarat regions, both politically crucial for the saffron party, which will face the assembly polls in December next year. Another push factor is the Patel quota agitation, which is resurfacing after a brief hiatus. "After the appointments of new party president and other office bearers, there will be reshuffle in the cabinet. The CM has already consulted the Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the party president Amit Shah," said a top source in the government. In the proposed exercise, Ms. Patel will seemingly give importance to MLAs belonging to the Saurashtra region. The heavyweight Minister Saurabh Patel, who holds powerful portfolios like Finance, Energy and Petrochemicals, Mining and Tourism will be stripped of couple of Ministries., sources told The Hindu.A prominent member of the Gujarat government for more than a decade, Mr.Patel has apparently fallen out with the Chief Minister owing to his ambition and his "tight grip over the energy sector that involves cash rich state PSUs." "He is no longer as close to the CM as he used to be during Narendra Modi's tenure," the above quoted source added. According to the insiders, presently, top Ministers including the CM are from urban areas and that needs to be aligned to give proper representation to the rural areas after debacle in local elections. In the organisation front, the party will declare names of the district presidents in a week while new state president will be named before January 25th. "The cabinet reshuffle may take place immediately after the budget session of the assembly which will start from February," a party insider said. Initially, Chief Minister was supposed to carry out reshuffle in the state bureaucracy at district and state level but now bureaucratic rejig will be done only after organisational and cabinet restructure. 