http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/GVK-threatens-to-terminate-services-of-900-ambulance-staff/article14020587.ece

Backed by the government, GVK EMRI, the private agency that runs the ambulance service ‘108’, has threatened to terminate the services of 900 employees on the charge of indiscipline, even as at least 200 employees started their indefinite strike on Monday.S.S. Perveez, senior manager of GVK EMRI, told presspersons that they were forced to terminate the services since the quality of service had fallen by eight to 10 per cent, and the State government had pointed out the same.Health Minister U.T. Khader also backed the private company’s decision and said there was a need to initiate action against “indiscipline staff”. “There are complaints that the paramedical staff and drivers admit patients in private hospitals instead of government hospitals due to personal gains. There were also complaints of bribery, refusing to ferry patients, using ambulance for personal needs, and switching off their phones,” he said.Though Mr. Perveez said that protesting employees have been given a week’s time to sign an undertaking promising good behaviour, the 108 Association of Karnataka has refused to sign it.Pointing out the problematic clauses, Anand Kathi, general secretary of the association, said they were not allowed to protest or go on strike, approach the State government or any other third party if they had grievance, and not approach the media. Some of their demands included extra pay after eight hours of work and minimum wages. He said the private agency was trying to divide the union. The union has not disrupted services so far and would enter a hunger strike if the private agency did not heed to their demands in two days, he said, adding that the agency was responsible for the mess and alleged that they indulged in corruption.Mr. Perveez said ambulances services were currently not affected but said they had back-up plans such as including KSRTC drivers and government staff nurses, in case of an emergency.“A section of the employees are not disciplined and are rude to patients. We want this service to run well and do not want injustice for our patients,” he said.