http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Visakhapatnam/GVMC-to-mechanise-road-sweeping-SWM/article13995576.ece

To improve sanitation and effective utilisation of available manpower, the GVMC plans to introduce machines in sweeping of roads and in solid waste management (SWM).Modern and scientific solid waste management and creation of enabling atmosphere for private sector participation in capital expansion, and operation and maintenance are among the objectives of Swachh Bharat Mission for urban areas. The GVMC has initiated the process to hire road-sweeping machines for use on its main roads. In all, five machines are planned to be deployed, each with a capacity to sweep 40 km a day, it is learnt. The machine will sweep either side of the road in turns. The machines, costing Rs.1 crore each, will be hired by the GVMC from the companies making them, and the contract is for operation and maintenance, say sources. The machines are planned to be deployed along the 250-km of road, which is about 500 km counting length on either side of the dividers.Compacting machinesThe deployment of the road-sweeping machines has two advantages: it will enable the corporation to use the services of the workers in the wards for better sanitation and they could also be used for better door-to-door collection of solid waste.For better lifting and transferring solid waste from the city to the dump, the GVMC also called for compacting machines. Garbage is now transported loosely dumped in trucks and a net is placed to avoid their spilling onto the roads during transport. About 1000 tons of garbage is transported to the yard at Kapulauppada. The machines costing Rs.35 lakh have the capacity to carry up to 15 tons of garbage. They will be placed at central points and garbage by small vehicles and dumper bins would be dumped into it for compacting. Plan is to introduce five such machines.We need 30 compactors for the city. We have placed orders for five. We have also placed orders for road-sweeping machinesPravin KumarGVMC Commissioner