http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Visakhapatnam/GVMC-to-focus-on-improving-tax-collection/article14017441.ece

Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) is to focus on improving its collectibles to achieve higher revenues.In the budget proposals drawn up for the year 2016-17, the GVMC has shown a proposed expenditure of Rs. 2,846.79 crore against receipts of Rs. 2,812.37 crore. It started the year with an opening balance of Rs. 243.85 crore and proposes to close with a balance of Rs. 209.44 crore.The civic body is expecting a significant amount in grants under AP Disaster Recovery Project, Smart City programme, JNNURM, AMRUT and the 13{+t}{+h}Finance Commission, GVMC Commissioner Pravin Kumar told the media here on Saturday. No new taxes have been proposed in the budget.The reassessment of property taxes to overcome under-assessment and non-assessment could not be completed in the current fiscal and would be taken up in the fiscal year 2016-17.The State government had tested a LIDAR based property identification and assessment programme in one ward in Anantapur. The government has to decide on the technology to be and this would be implemented in Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada and Tirupati, the Commissioner explained.The system would effectively put an end to discretion in property evaluation which was the main factor leading to underassessment.The GVMC had to increase the water rates as it had to clear its dues to VIWSCO which was to the tune of Rs. 120 crore.The GVMC plans to cut down on wasteful expenditure apart from making all out efforts to reduce the uncollectibles. A detailed exercise has been conducted to identify expenditures that can be eliminated, the Municipal Commissioner explained. Among the uncollectibles are those which are in courts, like the vacant land tax of the Steel Plant.Out of the total due of Rs, 150 crore under VLT, the Steel Plant owes Rs 135 crore. The government institutions and establishments too are paying a minimum amount as taxes and avoiding paying the actual dues, for instance the Central establishments that are due to pay service charges to the tune of Rs. 2 crore are getting away with shelling out Rs. 24 lakh.IFR expenditureThe GVMC has so far spent Rs. 85 crore on city beautification and improvement of city infrastructure for the forthcoming International Fleet Review. It would have to spend another Rs. 5 crore for the conduct of the event. So far the State government has released Rs. 25 crore to the GVMC and it would have to release the balance amount. The GVMC cannot foot the bill, Mr Pravin Kumar said.In the budget proposals drawn up for the year 2016-17, the GVMC has shown a proposed expenditure of Rs. 2,846.79 crore against receipts of Rs. 2,812.37 crore