http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/kozhikode/Handicrafts-fete-a-big-draw/article13983782.ece

: Twenty days of fun and frolic in the company of handicrafts from all over the country — that was Sargaalaya Iringal International Craft Festival that concluded at the Sargaalaya Art and Crafts Village in Iringal on Tuesday.Walking along the 250-odd stalls at the colourful festival was an education on the culture from various parts of the country and the role of handicrafts in keeping them alive. We learn to appreciate the intricate Kalakaari patterns from Andhra Pradesh and the painstaking efforts of the Potachitra artists from West Bengal. The intricate Phulkaari patterns from Punjab left embroidery enthusiasts, especially women, spellbound while one couldn’t be anything but wonderstruck at the cast iron sculptures from Jharkhand.It has been five years since the annual crafts festivals started at Sargaalaya. For the last two years, it had been known as Sargotsav, a national craft festival. But none had reached the magnificence of the International Craft Festival this year, considering both the number of participants as well as the turnout.The involvement of various noted players such as the Kerala Handicrafts Development Corporation, Departments of Tourism of both the State and Centre besides the Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society, as well as good publicity turned beneficial for the festival. “There has been a steady flow of customers in the afternoon. Sundays are very active. We did not even realise that it was midnight. The festival has brought us very good sales,” said Bidula, from Elathoor in Kozhikode, who had a stall of terracotta artefacts at the festival.“The festival is very lively. We always have dozens of people around the stalls during our live workshops,” said Sankaran Achari who mans the stall for Aranmula metal mirrors.Craftsmen at the permanent stalls in the village too benefited from the huge inflow of visitors. The cultural programmes that enriched the evenings as well as the food festival were also big crowd pullers.