http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Hassan-tahsildar-wants-three-RTI-activists-blacklisted/article14013338.ece

The Hassan tahsildar has written to the Superintendent of Police (SP) of Hassan to keep three Right to Information (RTI) Act applicants away from his office, alleging that they were disturbing peace in his office by seeking information on many issues from his office.V. Manjunath, the tahsildar, has appealed to the SP to probe into activities of RTI applicants H.R. Ramesh, L. Manjunath and Dinesh, besides keeping them in the “blacklist”.Letter to SPIn his letter to the SP on December 23, 2015, a copy of which is with The Hindu , Mr. Manjunath said the three persons had been seeking information under the RTI Act on issues not related to them. “They are troubling the staff by applying for information in different names. They often argue with the staff and threaten to move the appellate authority if information is not provided,” he said.The attempts, the tahsildar said, to get information related to land belonging to others gave rise to suspicion about their motive behind collecting information. “They come to the office every day and disturb officials from discharging their duties. Besides that, they instigate common public against the officers and disturb peaceful environment in the office.”He wanted the police to probe into activities of the RTI applicants and check if they were utilising the information obtained under the Act for any illegal purposes.This has not gone down well with the RTI applicants. Mr. Ramesh told The Hindu that the tahsildar’s letter was against the basic motto of the RTI Act.“I have been asking information under the RTI Act for the last six years. The information I and my friends have gathered has unearthed many irregularities in the administration. Three officials have been suspended for their irregularities,” he said.Mr. Ramesh said recently he had collected many documents under the RTI Act regarding alleged irregularities committed by the tahsildar, which was the reason for his action.Mr. Ramesh said he and his two friends would move the human rights commission and other agencies against the tahsildar. “We have the right to seek information. What’s wrong in sharing the information, if the officer has not done anything wrong?” he sought to know.The three persons have been seeking information under the RTI Act on issues not related to them.V. Manjunath,Hassan tahsildarThe tahsildar’s letter [seeking action against the activists] is against the basic motto of the RTI Act.H.R. Ramesh,RTI activist