http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Hassan-people-irked-over-non-completion-of-ring-road/article13981808.ece

The work on ring road construction planned some years ago for Hassan has stopped midway. If any traveller were to take this road to reach Belur Road from the city, unaware of its present condition, he or she is sure to miss it half the way and invariably return to city.The nine-km-long road connecting Dairy Circle with Belur Road was planned during the Janata Dal (Secular)-BJP coalition government . The project was entrusted to the Public Works Department at a cost of Rs. 7 crore. Since then, the work continued at a snail’s pace and as a result only a 3.18-km stretch has been completed. For the last four-five years, residents have been demanding early completion of the work to ease traffic congestion in the city.On its completion, there will not be any need for people travelling to Belur or Chikkamagaluru from Bengaluru to enter Hassan city. They will be able to touch Belur Road by taking the Ring Road at the Dairy Circle. This would reduce the traffic on Bengaluru-Mangaluru Road in the city limits.Besides, the proposed road would ease the traffic on many roads in the areas located around the Ring Road. When asked about the delay in completing the work, Minister for Animal Husbandry and Sericulture A. Manju, said at a press conference that owners of some farmland that was needed for the Ring Road were demanding high compensation. “The district administration will soon consult the landowners and resolve the issue to pave way for completing the work,” he said. The land-owners, residents of Uddur and neighbouring villages, dug a trench on the land a few days ago when some officials reached the spot to take up the work.They demanded the district administration provide sites in the proposed S.M. Krishna Layout, besides a four-times the market-rate for the land they would be parting with as compensation. H.S. Prakash, Hassan MLA, had assured the farmers that the matter would be discussed with the Hassan Urban Development Authority, who had taken up the layout project.The demand for land in many private layouts that have come up around the proposed Ring Road is coming down drastically as the ring road has not been completed.Similarly, many houses in the region have remained unsold owing to lack of buyers. Expansion of the urban space has come to a halt because of the delay in addressing the problems,” said Gopal Krishna, a realtor at G.G. Koplu. Like him, many people, who have invested huge money on land around the ring road with the expectation of high returns, have been disappointed.So far, only a 3.18-km stretch has been completedOwners of land are now demanding a compensation at three times the market rateThere is also a demand for a site in the proposed S.M. Krishna Layout being formed by HUDA