http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/HC-notice-to-Kejriwal-Azad-on-DDCA%E2%80%99s-defamation-case/article14001423.ece

The Delhi High Court on Friday issued notices to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and suspended BJP MP Kirti Azad on a defamation suit filed by the Delhi and District Cricket Association (DDCA) seeking damages of Rs.2.5 crore from each of them for their purported remarks made against the cricket body’s functioning and finances.After going through the suit filed by the DDCA, the High Court’s Joint Registrar Anil Kumar Sisodia held that the petition was maintainable and both the defendants needed to clear their stand. The Registrar sought the response of Mr. Kejriwal and Mr. Azad to the suit by March 2.The suit has accused Mr. Kejriwal of making certain “shocking, slanderous and outrageous” statements recently in the DDCA row, which the cricket body perceives as defamatory. Mr. Azad has also been accused of making statements made “solely with an agenda to defame and cause harm” to DDCA.DDCA counsel Sangram Patnaik said the allegations against the cricket body regarding financial irregularities and corruption in selections at the junior-level amounted to maligning its image.The suit, which has also demanded a public apology from Mr. Kejriwal and Mr. Azad, has come shortly after Finance Minister Arun Jaitley dragged the Chief Minister and five other Aam Aadmi Party leaders to the court for allegedly making defamatory remarks against him and his family members.Mr. Jaitley has filed both civil and criminal defamation cases against Mr. Kejriwal and his party colleagues. His civil suit has sought damages of Rs.10 crore from the defendants.DDCA ScamWhat - The AAP alleged huge financial irregularities in DDCA during Arun Jaitley’s 13 year-old tenure as its chief, saying large amounts were siphoned off through fake companies besides other irregularities including in team selection.When - BJP MP and former cricketer Kirti Azad had earlier in 2014 alleged irregularities in the functioning of DDCA. The Delhi government had set up a committee to inquire the alleged DDCA scam after they received several complaints.Who - The AAP is demanding an investigation against Mr. Jaitley and other office-bearers of the DDCA. Mr. Jaitley was the patron-in-chief of the DDCA until December 2014.Then - Delhi's ruling party alleged that the CBI raid on Arvind Kejriwal's top officer Rajendra Kumar was linked to a DDCA file in the Chief Minister's office.