http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Kochi/HC-finds-no-irregularity-in-Swami%E2%80%99s-post-mortem/article13987853.ece

The Kerala High Court on Thursday observed that there was no irregularity in the post-mortem conducted on the body of Swami Saswatikananda, former president of the Sree Narayana Dharma Sanghom Trust.Justice B. Kemal Pasha, who had viewed the photographs of the post-mortem examination as well as the compact disc containing the conduct of post-mortem, said that he could not find any irregularity in the conduct of the post-mortem and its result. He also ordered that the present investigation into the death of the Swami be continued.Director General of Prosecution T. Asaf Ali submitted that it had been concluded that the death of the Swami was due to accidental drowning. The investigation into the actual cause of the death was on. Besides, nobody had so far filed any concrete complaint alleging that it was a case of murder.Plea for CBI probeThe court issued the order on a petition filed by Priyan of Kochi and another one by the All Kerala Anti-Corruption and Human Rights Protection Council, Palakkad seeking a further probe into the death of Swami.Mr. Priyan was interrogated thrice by the Crime Branch team which investigated the death of the Swami. According to him, Biju Ramesh, a Thiruvananthapuram-based businessman, had recently alleged that SNDP Yogam general secretary Vellappally Natesan and his son Thushar Vellappally had appointed the petitioner “as mercenary to murder Swami Saswatikananda”.Denying the allegations, Mr. Priyan had said that his name had been unnecessarily dragged into the controversy. According to him, though he was an accused in as many as 14 cases, he had been acquitted in all the cases. According to him, the main allegation was that the Crime Branch had conducted the investigation in a shoddy manner in order to facilitate the escape of the real culprits from the clutches of the law. The officers of the State police were biased and would not be able to conduct the investigation properly. Therefore, a CBI probe needs to be ordered into the case.