http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/HC-commutes-death-sentence-to-life-imprisonment/article14026591.ece

The Delhi High Court on Wednesday commuted the death sentence awarded to serial killer Chandrakant Jha to imprisonment for the remainder of his life without remission, while upholding his conviction in three murder cases.A Division Bench, comprising Justice Sanjiv Khanna and Justice R.K. Gauba, said the convict must be “emphatically and adequately” punished for his heinous crime. Jha, a native of Madhepura in Bihar, was convicted for killing three persons in 2006 and 2007 and dumping their headless bodies near Tihar Central Jail.The Bench upheld Jha’s conviction in all the three cases, but modified the capital punishment awarded to him in two of the cases in February 2013 to life imprisonment till death.The court said the case would fall in the category in which the extreme sentence of death by capital punishment would not be justified and at the same time possibility of award of remission and his release on completion of sentence of 14 years or even thereafter would be “inadequate and parlous”. The court ruled that the heinous and outrageous crime, involving inhumane behaviour and torture, must be emphatically and adequately punished. This case falls in a category beyond application of remission, said the court.Forty-nine-year-old Jha used to brutally kill the victims, dismember them and throw their headless bodies outside Tihar Central Jail here. After committing the murders, he dared the police by writing several letters and challenging them to nab him, saying he would send similar gifts after every 15 days.He was sentenced to life imprisonment in February 2013 in a case relating to the killing of Dilip, whose headless body was dumped near Tihar Jail in 2007. He was sentenced to death in the second case of an identical crime, in which he murdered 19-year-old Upender and dumped his headless body near Tihar Jail. The trial court described it as the rarest of the rare cases.Jha was awarded death penalty in yet another crime of beheading and chopping the body parts of a victim, Anil Mandal. His body was dumped outside the jail after the head and limbs were chopped off. The Delhi Police arrested Jha on May 25, 2007, in Mianwali Nagar here. He was earlier arrested in 1998 in a murder case but was acquitted for want of evidence.