http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Kochi/HC-rider-on-blacklisting-Lavalin/article14015328.ece

The Kerala High Court on Friday ordered that in the event of the State government deciding to blacklist SNC-Lavalin in pursuance to a show-cause notice issued, it should not be implemented without further orders from the court.Justice A. Muhamed Mushtaq issued the order on a writ petition filed by the SNC-Lavalin International Inc, a Canada-based firm challenging the notice issued in the backdrop of its involvement in a corruption case in connection with the contract for repair and revival of the Pallivasal, Sengulam and Panniyar hydroelectric projects undertaken during 1995-97.In its show-cause notice, the State government said it proposed to blacklist the firm in view of the final report filed by the Central Bureau of India and the adverse remarks made by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India with respect to the works it had undertaken for the hydroelectric projects and also the Kuttiyadi extension scheme. The notice asked the company to show cause why the company should not be blacklisted from entering into any contract with the government.The court asked the government to furnish the documents sought by the company in four weeks. If the documents were not available, the reasons shall be stated for not giving the documents. The company should file its reply in four weeks thereafter and the government was free to take a final decision after hearing the company and getting their objections. However, if it decided to blacklist the company, it should not be implemented without further orders from the court.The company contended that the notice was vague and did not state any violation of any binding contract. No specific allegations had been levelled against the company. The notice seeks to blacklist the company on the ground unrelated to its business activity. It violated the fundamental right to carry on trade or business as provided under Article 19(1) (g) of the Constitution. Besides the notice proposed to blacklist a company for a purported breach of contract which took place 15 years ago. The company sought to quash notice.