http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Kochi/HC-suspends-court-order-against-Babu/article14026641.ece

Suspending the Thrissur Vigilance Court directive to register an FIR against K. Babu, who had resigned as Excise Minister, in connection with the bar bribery charges, the Kerala High Court on Thursday directed the Director, Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) to file a quick verification report before the Vigilance Court in 10 days.Justice P. Ubaid passed the interim order on a petition moved by Mr. Babu. The interim order will remain in force for two months.When the court passed the interim order, T.B. Hood counsel for Thrissur Malayalavedi chairman George Vattukulam, a complainant before the Vigilance court, made a fervent plea for hearing his arguments before passing the interim order. He pointed out that the Supreme Court had laid down the dictum that no stay should be passed in corruption cases. However, the judge declined his plea.S. Sreekumar, senior counsel for Mr. Babu, submitted that the Vigilance court had passed the order in haste without waiting for the quick verification report and the decisions to be taken by a Division Bench on three pending writ petitions seeking a CBI probe, and also a directive to register a crime.The Vigilance court had also ordered a court-monitored investigation without the request of anybody and that too at a premature stage.He pointed out that the Bench was really considering the acceptability and justifiability of a report submitted by Deputy Superintendent of Police to the Vigilance Director saying that there was no scope for registering a crime against Mr. Babu.He argued that judicial propriety demanded that when a request made before a subordinate court on a particular matter was being considered by the High Court, the subordinate court should wait till the High Court passed an order.The court observed that the Vigilance court judge could have waited till orders were passed by the Division Bench. Having made a finding at the preliminary stage that a quick verification report was highly essential at the time of forwarding the complaint to the VACB, the Vigilance court judge could have waited for the quick verification report and granted the Vigilance Director reasonable time for filing the report before ordering registration of the FIR.