http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Kochi/HC-order-brings-relief-to-Panampilly-Nagar/article13991962.ece

The Kerala High Court recent interim order holding that applicants for fresh commercial licence for starting business establishments in the Panampilly Nagar housing colony would not get the benefit of deemed licence provision under the Kerala Municipality Act has come a relief for the residents in the area.As per section 447(6), if an order on an application for any licence or permission are not communicated to the applicant within thirty days after the receipt of the application by the Secretary or within such longer period, as may be prescribed in any class of cases, the application shall be deemed to have been allowed for the period required in the application, subject to the Act, rules and bye-laws and all conditions, which would have been ordinarily imposed.Justice V. Chitambaresh issued the interim order on an affidavit filed by Sobha Ramachandran and other residents in the area. In its order, the judge ordered that no applicant for fresh licence shall get the benefit of the “deeming provision” so long as its earlier interim order “is in vogue”.The residents complained in their affidavit that despite the High Court’s earlier interim order restraining the Kochi Corporation and the Greater Cochin Development Authority (GCDA) from issuing permit or licence for converting residential plots into commercial purposes, several new commercial establishments had commenced operations in the area, taking advantage of section 447(6). Though the GCDA does not appear to act on fresh applications, it has, however, allowed the applicants to function in the area on the strength of licence deemed to have been granted under the section 447(6). A slew of commercial establishments had come up in the areas with the tacit approval of the GCDA. The petitioner alleged that the GCDA was trying to defeat the court’s interim order by accepting the application for fresh licence. The action of the GCDA would amount to abuse of process of law.The petitioners had pointed out in their petition that the Panampilly Nagar housing scheme was the first such planned one in the state for middle and lower middle class populations. As per the title deeds, the buildings and plots were allotted for the residential purposes only. The land was assigned under the Detailed Town Planning Scheme for Elamkulam West, which envisaged a residential area on lands acquired for the scheme. Certain plots in the residential colony had been converted into commercial plots for building offices, godowns, warehouses and showrooms.The activity of these business establishments had made the life of residents difficult. It had caused noise and air pollution in the area, besides posing a threat to the privacy and peace of the residents. The traffic congestion on the colony’s service roads had become the order of the day due to illegal parking of vehicles.