http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/HD-surveillance-cameras-%E2%80%98solve%E2%80%99-road-accident-cases-too/article13991326.ece

Community Surveillance Cameras project of Hyderabad is paying dividends. Not only because the high definition video footage is leading the police to pickpockets or thieves, but it is also helping them fix responsibility in road accident cases as well.A road accident at Ranigunj crossroads reported five days ago is a classic example. Mechanic Abdul Rehman jumped the signal and rammed his two-wheeler into another bike being ridden by a middle-aged man Sandeep.Sandeep and his daughter, who was riding pillion, and also the mechanic fell off their respective two-wheelers. Fortunately, they escaped with minor injures. The mechanic picked up an argument alleging that the accident was Mr. Sandeep’s fault.Not paying heed to the other person’s explanation, the mechanic went to the Ramgopalpet police station. After listening to both the parties, the police showed them the video footage, which clearly showed the mechanic jumped the red signal.“The youngster had no option but to accept that he was responsible for the accident, and a case was registered against him,” Ramgopalpet Inspector Mohd. Waheeduddin said. This was not an isolated case. In many other parts of the city, police are finding the surveillance cameras helpful because of the high quality images.Sometimes, policemen at the field level get phone calls from political bosses and higher-ups soon after an accident is reported to ‘help the known person’. “Now, we can withstand the pressure from anyone by showing the video footage and deciding who exactly was at fault,” say the policemen.In another interesting case, an amateur sportsperson driving a Maruti Swift hit an 11-year-old boy on Necklace road around 11 a.m. and fled without caring for the injured boy. Investigators patiently examined the video footage and could note down the vehicle’s registration number.It was a big shock for the budding sportsperson to hear a knock on his door. He was dumbstruck on being shown the video images.