http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/He-found-coffee-a-new-home/article14017556.ece

A progressive farmer of Channarayapatna taluk chose to experiment with growing coffee. He has now shown that the bean can be grown in non-hilly areas, where for centuries it has been cultivated in hilly areas ( malenad ).“My wife Geetha is from Somwarpet in Kodagu district, where coffee is grown widely. During my visits there, I studied its cultivation and picked up ideas from the coffee growers. I wanted to see if we could get yield on our land. I planted Robusta coffee, and my experience has been encouraging. With 600 plants, I get around 12 to 14 bags of coffee beans a year,” said A.S. Vasu of Kalenahalli, about 8 km from Channarayapatna.Mr. Vasu took up agriculture after completing his graduation in Mysuru. “I have been actively involved in agriculture since childhood. My grandfather, who gave agriculture more importance than any other occupation, was my inspiration,” he said. With only two acres and 10 guntas of land, Mr. Vasu grows crops such as coconut, areca, coffee, pepper and a variety of fruits. Geetha looks after the floriculture.For coffee cultivation, he relies on his borewell, sprinklers and rainfall. “While in the hilly region, they get rainfall sufficient for blossoming, I use sprinklers. I have one borewell with water sufficient for my farm,” he said. He has 120 coconut trees, 220 areca, 600 coffee plants, and a few mango trees. “Recently I have planted apple saplings to check how they grow here. They are in a good state, and yet to give yield,” he said.He earns a profit of around Rs. 4 lakh annually. “I can increase the yield if I use chemical fertilizers, but I avoid them. I am happy with my income,” he said. Even today, he visits different farms and meets farmers, who have experimented with various methods. He used to grow sugarcane, earlier, and made a record of getting an yield of 92 tonnes of sugarcane per acre in 1984, for which he was felicitated by the Agriculture Department.