http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/kozhikode/He-was-no-ordinary-producer/article13995789.ece

M.O. Joseph, 88, who died in Chennai on Friday, was one of the most successful and respected producers of Malayalam cinema. His production house, Manjilas, was a very familiar name for Malayali film viewers of 1960-80.Joseph began his career as a production controller.In 1967, he became part of a production company called Navajeevan Films along with P. Balthazar and N.V. Joseph. Their first film was Nadan Pennu directed by K.S. Sethumadhavan.A year later, he made his debut as an independent producer with Yakshi . It was also directed by Sethumadhavan based on Malayattoor Ramakrishnan’s eponymous novel.He teamed up with Sethumadhavan for many more memorable films such as Anubhavangal Palichakal , Ara Nazhika Neram , Chattakkari , Kadalpalam , Adimakal , Chukku and Vazhve Mayam .“Joseph and Sethumadhavan had shared excellent vibes,” Sheela, who acted in many of those movies, told The Hindu . “And Joseph was no ordinary producer; he was knowledgeable about various aspects of film-making. He was particularly good in identifying stories for films.”She said she had known Joseph long before she acted in films produced by him. “He was an excellent producer who took good care of his artistes,” she said. “He was also a very good friend of mine.”A fine numberOne of the finest songs of Sheela was from a film Joseph produced – Kadalpalam . The song Ujjayiniyile gayika… , in fact, is one of the greatest ever in Malayalam cinema; it had fetched singer P. Leela the State Award.Among the unforgettable songs from Joseph’s films include Swarnachamaram veeshiyethunna … ( Yakshi ), Samayamam rathathil njan… ( Ara Nazhika Neram ), Ithihasangal janikkum munpe… ( Chuvanna Sandhyakal ), Venchandralkehayorapsara sthree… ( Chukku ), Innenikku pottukuthan… ( Guruvayur Kesavan ), Julie I love you … ( Chattakkari ), Pravachakanmare parayoo … ( Anubhavangal Palichakal ) and Prema bhikshuki … ( Punarjanmam ).