http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/He-loves-love-stories/article14014046.ece

Director Dasaradh has a loyal following of family audience. This time he is set to surprise movie buffs with Shourya; He terms it an experiment, after having directed more than half a dozen projects, he has realised the necessity to re-invent himself. It is not a thriller but a thrilling love story starring Manchu Manoj and Regina about problems arising between lovers due to an element that one cannot guess, he says. He reflects, “The audiences are predicting my stories and screenplay. If Greeku Veerudu had been directed by someone else, it would have got appreciation. So to break the monotony from my angle, I have come up with an absolutely new film to me and the people. Eighty-five percent of the concept is fresh.”The title Shourya is apt, it is about a courageous and an intelligent youth. Manoj was his first choice when he set off to look for the lead role, admits Dasaradh. “He is mellow, simple and down to earth in this story. He will be back with a bang with this film. Regina has every quality to be a star, she has a strong role here."It has been quite a while since a love story that concentrated on the couple alone released, OK Bangaram was the last, thinks Dasaradh. He adds, “If four people in a room decide a story and a crore like it, the project reaches a break-even position. I have done my best and now I’ve got to see how the audience receives it. It has very less comedy, Brahmanandam steps in for just four scenes as the story demands that much only. My brother Veda is being introduced as a music director. Siva Kumar who produced Surya Vs Surya with Nikhil is producing this movie and Prakash Raj plays a very important role. The story begins and ends in a village, it has been shot in Rajamundry and Chikmagalur.”Ask him why all the titles of his films like K. Vishwanath’s projects begin with ‘S’, he says it is purely co-incidental, but this time the producer insisted it should begin with S.