http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Heavy-rush-of-revellers-at-NTR-Beach-Festival/article13993609.ece

Thousands of people thronged beach at Suryaraopeta to bid an adieu to the annual NTR Beach Festival for the year 2016 on Sunday. Being a public holiday, people in large numbers began to reach the beach from the noon onwards. As the climate is cloudy and conducive, the visitors enjoyed the festival even in the afternoon hours.By evening, the sprawling premises jampacked and there was a bumper to bumper traffic jam on all the roads leading to the beach. There was no dearth of audience for the performances took place on all the three days and the stalls and arenas of entertainment too witnessed heavy rush.The food stalls did a brisk business with families lined up in queue to taste delicacies such as bamboo chicken and exclusive sweet variety Perumallapuram Pakam Garelu. Over half-a-dozen stalls selling these two varieties were forced to hire additional men for the day to cater to the needs of an increased number of customers. Members of the women self-help groups too were in a happy mood as the homemade pickles and sweets were sold like anything on the last day.There was an unprecedented rush at the makeshift temples complex, located in a corner of the festival venue. People waited in long queues to get their turn to have the darsan. Sweepers hired for the festival had handful of work with cleaning the litter from time to time.“It took two hours for me to reach the beach from city. I don’t know where the police have gone wrong, but the traffic jam was horrible,” says P.N. Sastry, a resident of Gandhi Nagar. The parking lots were full of vehicles and still many owners of two-wheelers and four-wheelers were in search of parking place.“All the city vehicles are here today,” says B. Srinivas, a businessman from Sasikanth Nagar.Not just from Kakinada, but the residents of nearby places such as Uppada, Pithapuram and Peddapuram too joined the celebrations in the sandy stretch.People waited in queue for their turn at the counters of para-sailing, helicopter ride and even the camel ride. .