http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/entertainment/Heartache-tonight/article14009950.ece

Hell had frozen over. It was in 1994 that the Eagles made a spectacular comeback. At their early reunion concerts, vocalist-guitarist Glenn Frey joked: “For the record, we never broke up: we just took a 14-year vacation.” That became one of the most legendary quotes in the history of rock music.Today, Eagles fans are in shock after hearing of Frey’s death at 67, on Monday. Coming just eight days after David Bowie’s demise, it came as a double blow. Minds went flashing back, as people recalled their favourite Eagles song.From ‘Hotel California’ and ‘Peaceful Easy Feeling’ to ‘New Kid in Town’ and ‘Heartache Tonight’, they kept humming.The Eagles were an institution, and Frey gave them flight. In an appropriate tribute, his long-time partner, vocalist-drummer Don Henley, told Rolling Stone magazine: “He was the one who started it all. He was the spark plug, the man with the plan.”Over the years, Frey played a special role in the Eagles’ success story. He had a major part in the song-writing process, often teaming with Henley. He sang lead vocals like ‘Take It Easy’, ‘Peaceful Easy Feeling’, ‘Doolin-Dalton’, ‘Desperado’, ‘Tequila Sunrise’, ‘Heartache Tonight’, ‘Lyin Eyes’, ‘Already Gone’ and ‘New Kid In Town’. And besides regular bursts of lead guitar, he played the piano and keyboards, ‘Desperado’ being a classic example.Originally from Detroit, Henley began learning piano at five, and later, picked up guitar.His early bands were the Subterraneans and The Four of Us, which was inspired by folk-rock outfit The Byrds. At 19, he played acoustic guitar and sang back-up vocals on Bob Seger’s single ‘Ramblin Gamblin Man’.Frey’s biggest song-writing influences were Bob Seger, who encouraged him to write original material, and Jackson Browne, who stayed above his apartment in Los Angeles and later co-wrote ‘Take It Easy’. He met Henley in 1970, and they were invited to be part of singer Linda Ronstadt’s back-up band along with bassist Randy Meisner and guitarist Bernie Leadon. The following year, the four of them formed the Eagles.A few things made the Eagles stand apart. To begin with, their sound had a good blend of country, pop and rock, and their repertoire contained a fair mix of ballads and high-energy numbers. Secondly, they had a huge number of hits. Besides the ones mentioned above, there were ‘One Of These Nights’, ‘Witchy Woman’, ‘Sad Café’, ‘Life In The Fast Lane’, ‘The Long Run’, ‘Get Over It’, ’I Can’t Tell You Why’, ‘Love Will Keep Us Alive’ and ‘Waiting In The Weeds’.Most important, they were one of the most consistent groups ever. The Eagles released only seven studio albums: the self-titled debut, Desperado , On The Border , One Of These Nights , Hotel California , The Long Run and Long Road Out Of Eden . While the first six were released in the 1970s, the last was put out in 2007. Their 1994 live album Hell Freezes Over is one of the biggest selling concert recordings ever.In terms of consistency among American bands, the Eagles were matched only by the Doors and Creedence Clearwater Revival. All three groups had a very high percentage of popular, sing-along tunes. Another plus point of the Eagles was their four-quadrant appeal. Even today, they attract old people, youngsters, males and females. As they mix diverse genres, they are followed by pop lovers, country fans and the rock crowd. Very few groups have these qualities.While Frey and Henley held fort throughout, the group went through a few line-up changes in the 1970s. First, Don Felder came in and lent the country sound by playing mandolin, banjo and pedal steel guitar; later, he was to co-write ‘Hotel California’ with Frey and Henley.Leadon, who also played guitar, was replaced by Joe Walsh. Bassist Meisner made way for Timothy B Schmit.During the group’s hiatus from 1980 to 1994, most members did solo projects. From No Fun Aloud in 1982 to After Hours in 2012, Frey released five studio recordings and one live effort. Some songs like ‘The Heat Is On’, ‘You Belong To The City’, ‘The One You Love’ and ‘Smuggler’s Blues’ are popular among Eagles fans. Despite his musical commitments, Frey tried his hand at acting for television and film too, bagging roles in Miami Vice and Jerry Maguire. Whatever he did, he was known to pursue it with passion. As Henley said in his tribute: “He had an encyclopaedic knowledge of popular music and a work ethic that wouldn’t quit. He was funny, bull-headed, mercurial, generous, talented and driven.”Nobody could have said it better. Glenn, you shall be missed.(Narendra Kusnur is a freelance music writer)