http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/Heart-recipients-doing-well/article13982549.ece

The 16-year-old who underwent a heart transplant on Sunday was taken off the ventilator on Monday afternoon, a little over 24 hours after she was operated upon, in what doctors said was a sign of good recovery.This was the first paediatric heart transplant carried out in eastern and western India, doctors said.“The ventilator was removed when the child is stable. She has recovered so well. The whole team is very happy. We will observe the child for some time. And if everything goes well, she should be home in two to three weeks,” said Vijay Agarwal, head of paediatric cardiac surgery at Fortis Hospital, Mulund.“We did an echo today and her heart is functioning well. The only concern is she is on immuno-suppressive drugs to prevent rejection. We are looking for signs of infection, and not allowing anybody to go near her,” said Dr Agarwal.The family of the girl, Sweden D’Souza, is relieved after the surgery. Her father Anthony D’Souza, who works as a security guard with the ONGC, said his daughter was a healthy child and never had any problem until three months ago when she suddenly complained of breathlessness and chest pain.“We got her to Fortis and doctors here told us she had a heart problem and would need a transplant. We were taken aback, and for some time we didn’t know what to do. But then we decided that if it had to done, then it should be,” recalled Mr D’Souza.He said on January 2, they got a call from Fortis asking them to come to the hospital with Sweden. They rushed and she was taken inside immediately. “And on Sunday, the operation started immediately after the heart reached the hospital,” he said, adding in good measure: “It’s a second birth for my daughter. She has got a new life.”He thanked the Indore family for making the donation and said that while he was happy, he could only imagine what they were going through.The 58-year-old Kandivli resident, who received a donor heart from Surat on December 19, too is doing well and is set to be discharged this week.The Indian Oil employee, Rajan Prabhakar Desai, had suffered a heart attack in 2011 when he had gone for a trek to Karjat. His wife, Shraddha Desai (57), who took voluntary retirement from Western Railway last year, said they had consulted doctors to explore the possibility of a heart transplant. “But all the doctors said he had poor immunity and was not capable for a heart transplant. I then read about a successful heart transplant and last November consulted Fortis and registered him for a heart,” she said.She said she was hopeful that with the transplant, he would now lead a normal life. “Earlier, he used to feel a lot of weakness,” she said. Fortis, Mulund, carried out two inter-state heart transplants in a fortnight.