http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/Heart-and-art-of-our-tribes/article13986455.ece

National School of Drama’s Adibasi Adi Bimb, celebrated in the last three days of December every year, has been happening for three consecutive years at Dwaranda village. The festival wafted like a breath of fresh air in the tiny hamlet near Santiniketan. Dwaronda is habitat of the Santhal tribe blessed with their unique culture.Ratan Thiyam, the Chairman of the National School of Drama, had envisioned that Dwaranda will be the venue for holding Adibasi Adi Bimb every year.The tribes, several in number, have a parallel existence set apart from the mainstream society. They are by no means ignorant and in need to be assimilated with the mainstream. In fact, they have the knowledge to live life amidst nature. And they do so according to their own terms, which in no way is harmful to the environment.The tribes have a vibrant culture of dance, music and theatre which is an integral part of their day-to-day life. The National School of Drama, New Delhi, holds Adibasi Adi Bimb Festival to contribute to the growth and development of tribal art and culture across the country. The ambience of the venue resembled a village courtyard, replete with designs and decorations of Anup Giri. The concept was of course by Ratan Thiyam.Filmmaker Aparna Sen was the chief-guest for the festival. The inaugural lamp – made of leaves with oil and wick in it – was lit by Ratan Thiyam and Aparna Sen.Lewtana Hajongs tribe of Assam observe festivals of Sanatan religion. Wearing colourful costumes they performed a joyful dance which is performed during Bihu and Diwali.Meghalaya artistes performed Wangala dance. Garo, a matrilineal tribe – perhaps the only one left in the world – danced Rugala, Sasat Sowa and Dama Gogata, which they usually spread out for three days in the home of the Nokma – the village Chief.Deori-Bihu of Assam performed by young maidens stole the hearts of the audience by their natural movements of happiness for having harvested a rich crop.Wearing Dokhna, a dress covering the body from the chest to the ankles, they danced the Bagurumba practiced during their festivals. They danced the ‘Butterfly’, dance named so because their movement resembles butterflies. Neeranjan, the leader of the group performed Natua Dan of Bihar.The Gubukudu of Odisha was performed by the Lanjia Saura tribe. Keet-Lahm Kabui dance of the Kabui Naga community was a colourful presentation. The dance was remarkable for the modulation of sound and movement rising from a slow movement to a crescendo. This dance was interesting and entertaining because it imitated cricket. There was of course the performance of the dance of the Santhals, with several pots on their heads and bejewelled with flower and foliage. Spanning the three-day long festival many other forms were showcased during the evenings.Beside the tribal dances, the villagers got to hear their songs and see their several crafts.Kabui Theatre Group of Manipur depicted the feeling of trauma and agony faced by the survivors of violence in any form.The play was set against the background of the existent turmoil of contemporary times. The play in fact was a protest against the non-acceptance of a multi-ethnic and plural society. Starring Kamei, the director did an excellent job in garnering the best from his actors.