http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Thiruvananthapuram/Health-project-to-benefit-low-income-group/article13985743.ece

The Comprehensive Health Project, approved by the Cabinet on Wednesday in pursuance of the announcement made in the 2015-16 budget, would benefit low-income families whose annual income is below Rs.3 lakh. The project that seeks to bring all schemes that offer financial cover under one umbrella will benefit an estimated 42 lakh families.Announcing this at his post-Cabinet media briefing here, Chief Minister Oommen Chandy said a Sampoorna Arogya Keralam Trust will be established to regulate and implement the project. The Chief Minister will be its president. The trust would have a Rs.20-crore corpus fund, besides a separate head of account.The project envisages the use of smart cards to consolidate schemes managed by various departments, agencies to extend a financial cover of up to Rs.2 lakh to the targeted beneficiaries. The government will use Telangana’s Arogyashree Trust’s IT platform with some local changes.There are over eight health schemes including the Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojana, Comprehensive Insurance Scheme and Karunya Benevolent Fund which offer financial cover. These schemes have different procedures. As a result of this, there is scope for misuse and malpractice, the Chief Minister said.The project will enter into agreements with the hospital network currently included in the RSBY and Karunya Benevolent Fund. All beneficiaries who are not part of the 32 lakh families already enjoying benefits under the RSBY, Comprehensive Health Insurance Agency of Kerala (CHIAK) and CHIAK-Plus schemes, will have to secure an income certificate from the Revenue Department and submit it to the project managers to be eligible for the smart card.A technical committee will be formed to decide on the protocol for medical treatment and the procedures to be adopted. The trust would consider the recommendations of the technical committee prior to taking a final decision. The cost of treatment will be decided on the basis of a comparative assessment of market rates and the rates available under different schemes. If necessary, the treatment costs would be decided on the basis of reverse bidding process. The trust will have the Finance Minister and Health Minister as vice chairmen, while the Labour and Social Justice Ministers will be members of the trust. The officials concerned representing the various departments will also be included as members. The trust will have a chief executive officer, who would also officiate as trust secretary.