http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Kochi/Helping-start-ups-get-out-of-legal-tangles/article13977707.ece

Young entrepreneurs looking to set up their start-ups are often surefooted about their ideas and the business model.But that’s not the case when faced with the confidence-sapping legal tangles right from the registration of their companies. That’s whereeasyvakil.com, an online legal service provider, steps in with a helping hand. Being a start-up in their own right helps them better understand the requirements of youngsters.“We offer the service of chartered accountants, company secretaries, and lawyers on a single online platform, thereby taking away the legal headaches of budding entrepreneurs, enabling them to focus on the business part,” said Prajesh S. Pulparambil, head of operations of the portal, who is also a lawyer.Entrepreneurs just need to upload the documents and the 11-member team ofeasyvakil.comwould help them register their company or trademark from the easy comfy of their homes or offices, sparing them the hassles of never-ending trips to multiple offices. The company which started off from the Technolodge at Piravom now has offices in Kozhikode Kochi, and Muvattupuzha.They have already helped to register 60-odd companies and over 100 trademarks. “Our relation with clients is a long-term one whereby we give them timely reminders and help them with annual filings,” said Mr. Pulparambil. Thateasyvakil.comoffers its service as the legal product of Tomatotree Technologies tells a tale.Initially, the youngsters had set up an IT start-up Tomatotree Technologies. But it didn’t really take off owing to various reasons, including the dropout of the technically proficient founding-members after they got jobs elsewhere. “That left us thinking and we soon realised that legal expertise was the forte of the remaining members. It dawned on us that just like we ran around for about three months to get our IT company registered, many start-ups may be in the lookout for a helping hand with the legal affairs,” Mr. Pulparambil said.The team ofeasyvakil.comis now working on an Android-based mobile app, which is likely to be published by February. Meanwhile, the company is also running entrepreneurship development programmes on campuses to identify new talents.