http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/Help-of-banks-sought-in-cracking-agriculture-department-scam/article14020640.ece

In a move to hasten the investigation, the police officials have approached the banks seeking their cooperation in cracking the scam in the agriculture department where more than Rs. 3.2 crore funds were diverted to some unknown accounts across the country.Mr. Anjaneyulu, Circle Inspector, Sangareddy, has sought original copies of cheques issued by Mr. Manikyam, the prime accused in the scam, from both - State Bank of Hyderabad, Sangareddy branch Andhra Pradesh Grameen Vikas Bank (APGVB), Shantinagar Branch,- under section 91 of CRPC. The bankers were expected to hand over the cheques to the police after getting formal approval from their head offices. Police are expected to send these cheques along with original signatures of Mr. B. Hukya Naik, Joint Director, Agriculture, whose sign was allegedly forged for these transactions.Though officials of the agriculture were not happy over reports appearing in a section of press over not taking action against Mr. Manikyam long back though he was reportedly accused in the scam of Rs. 6 lakh, they were failing to explain the reasons for not taking action against him. “Though the amount was recovered from him there was no official record. On the other hand, it forces to take action against some officials in the department,” said an officer in the department.B. Prakash, Chief Manager, APGVB, Shanti Nagar, informed The Hindu that they are cooperating with the bankers and the details would be handed over to the police at the earliest. He said that they have followed the laid systems in clearing the cheques issued by the agriculture department and have not deviated from any procedure. He has clarified that there were no instructions from the department not to release cheques issued in the name of individuals and the signature of the issuing authority was checked properly.Mr. Ramana Reddy, Lead Bank Manager, said that signatures should be partially readable but that was not being followed by any official and banks are never insisting on that. “Signatures of many officials are easy to forge and it may be risky. There need to be awareness in this regard,” said Mr. Ramana Reddy.We have followed the rules and regulations in clearing the cheques issued by the agriculture department and have not deviated from any procedureB. Prakash,Chief Manager, APGVB,Shanti Nagar.