http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Her-many-worlds/article14026750.ece

Professor K. Srilata’s book of poems, Bookmarking the Oasis, was recently launched by the Department of Humanities and Social sciences, IIT Madras. The launch was part of its annual student conference; the theme was ‘Grappling with the Sacred’.Once Professor Bhaskar Ramamurthi, Director, IIT Madras, released the book, it was time for a riveting panel discussion featuring arts editor Sadanand Menon and author V. Geetha.Excerpts from an interview with Srilata, who is a professor of English at IIT Madras.Could you elucidate on the department’s theme, ‘Grappling with the Sacred’?It is ambiguous and can be interpreted in various ways by different communities. The theme encompasses the many angles and the pervading tension surrounding the term ‘sacred’, with respect to several communities.How has your career as an academic as a professor influenced your writing?Teaching takes me out to the real world, and I get to interact with young students who prove to be an inspiration. When you’re a writer, you tend to spend a lot of time with yourself and your thoughts, to the point of self-obsession.So, it’s essential to involve yourself in everyday experiences to pull you out of this contained trance. It’s vital to go around and gauge the political, social and cultural undercurrent, so that you can develop more clarity on issues.What’sBookmarking the Oasisabout?The book is a collection of brief poems compiled over two years. I’ve covered a wide range of issues, from the Bhopal gas tragedy and the perspective of the man who partitioned India, to the complexities of childhood. Most of them are a reflection of personal incidents or things I chance upon on a regular day.What are you writing after your successful debut novel,Table For Four?I’m working on a link of short stories; I’d call it a composite novel. It traces the tribulations of a young student who falls through the education system, and how he/she views the world. Since I am an academician, I have come into close contact with troubled children and adults, who find it hard to grapple with our education system. I hope to convey solutions to these commonly-faced problems through my book.You pack in so much — you’re an author, a poet and a professor. How do you manage your time?It’s not easy. As a writer, you invest so much time into confinement and thinking. I find it taxing, but with experience, you learn to tactfully space your time out. It’s all about prioritising. No matter how much I try to be disciplined, things don’t always work in a linear manner. Many a time, I have had to pick up the broken pieces, but you need to be determined enough to work around all of it, if there’s something important you have to convey.. That keeps me going.There’s a surge in liberal poetry with a cause, especially on social media. What’s your take on it?I think it’s inspiring to see the ascent of innovation in the form of poetry. It’s all the more inspiring to see so many people brimming with passion for issues of contention, philosophy and love.I wouldn’t say that literature is losing its essence in all this innovation. We must be on a par with the changing times. So must literature. People are constantly craving change, and to sustain their interest in forms of art and literature, we must constantly evolve. That is what’s happening. Maybe, if there’s something in it that calls out to me, I’ll try my hand at it.