http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Here-joy-comes-with-full-cream/article14022790.ece

More than three decades ago when Javed Akhtar penned these memorable lines, “Dekha ek khwab to ye silsile hue…phool bhi hon darmiyan to faasle hue”, he surely did not have Delhi’s wonderful winter on his mind. But really this is the time of the year when Delhi is at its best; the roundabouts have a lovely green look, the sun is mild, the evenings come early, the nights are long. And, most importantly, mornings arrives late too! Add to that manifold delights from the streets of Delhi, and you know why a particular poet in early modern India did not want to leave the lanes of Delhi.Some evening step out of the office. But instead of heading to the parking for your car or rushing down to Metro station to beat the peak hour rush, just amble across to the humble egg seller, the one who boils eggs, peels them, adds a dash of pepper and salt and presents them to office-goers piping hot. On a particularly cold evening, it is just what the doctor would order to take on the weather. A little later in the evening, as you sit with friends, a young of gajak and groundnuts won’t be out of place. Or even ‘maa ka haath ka gajar ka halwa’. And for those who believe life is all about enjoying your food a light dinner can be backed up by a glass of boiling hot milk. Not the one you heat over the gas stove at home, but the one heated for long over an angithi in an open cauldron in the lanes of Old Delhi. Here the shopkeeper would amaze you with his skills; the simple act of pouring milk into a tumbler is raised to a fine art. The man first pours the milk into a steel tumbler, adds some sugar, then pours it right into the tumbler in the other hand. He repeats the process, the sugar gets dissolved without a touch then milk loses a bit of the heat but none of the warmth. Now add to it cardamom or even saffron, and you know why life can be a heaven before heaven!Fine as these delights are, they all come post dusk. However, Delhi in winters is not just about eggs early evening, moongfali at night and milk at midnight. It offers rich delights at dawn too. If you are brave enough to raise your blanket and get out of your home at dawn, then drive down to the Walled City. Here nahari cooked overnight is available before the birds leave their nest. But if you are a bit late, don’t be disappointed. The kachoris of Bazar Sitaram or the simple bedmis are not to be missed. The fitness freaks can have a bite of sweet potato. Of course, if you hang around a bit longer, til ke laddoo and habshi halwa will only add to the joy.Didn’t we say Delhi’s winter is all about enjoying life king-size. Forget the pollution, ride out the fog, embrace life by the street-side. Let not even flowers come between you and your fill.