http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Vijayawada/Heritage-on-grand-display-at-R-Day-fete/article14022421.ece

The 67th Republic Day was celebrated with patriotic fervour in Vijayawada and Guntur on Tuesday.The tableau of various departments that took part in the Republic Day celebrations at IGMC Stadium passed through main roads in the city. The tableau passed through Bandar Road, Benz Circle, Nirmala Convent Junction, Government General Hospital, Ramavarappadu ring road, Gunadala, Machavaram, Chittigunta, Governorpet, old Bus Stand, Raghavaiah Park and IGMC Stadium.The tableaux of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) bagged first prize. The tableau of agriculture and CRDA won second and third prizes respectively.1,000-metre flagThe students of Siddhartha Academy took out a procession from Siddhartha College, carrying a huge flag of 1,000-metre long. The procession passed through Mother Theresa at Mogalrajpuram, Nirmala Convent Road, Ramesh Hospital, ITI Road, and culminated at the college.The Republic Day celebrations were organised at the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC). Additional Commissioner P. Arunbabu, Vijayawada Sub-Collector Srujana, Kanaka Durga temple EO Ch. Narsing Rao, Wakf Board CEO L. Abdul Khadir hoisted national flags at their offices.Finance Minister Yanamala Ramarkrishnudu and others took part in celebrations at the TDP office.The celebrations were also organised at Rythu Bazars, CPI office and in schools and colleges.The VMC and Kanaka Durga temple gave away merit certificates to its employees. The VMC presented the certificates to RI-I PVS Raghavendra Rao, RI-II SJL Narasimha Rao, timescale NMRs NSV Brunda, S.Venkatachalam, Dy.EE G.Samrajyam and others.Temple EO gave awards to pradhana archaka Y. Malleswara Sastry, mukhya archaka Kota Ravi, P. Ratna Reddy and DVN Raju, record assistants, Dole vidwan Sridevi, talam vidwam Jeevan Kumar and others.In Guntur, Collector Kantilal Dande unfurling the national flag at the 67th Republic Day celebrations held at Police Parade Grounds. Earlier, the Collector inspected an impressive guard of honour by the AR regiment of Guntur Rural. Superintendents of Police, Sarva Srestha Tripathi (Guntur Urban) and K. Narayan Naik (Guntur Rural) were present. The Collector also gave commendation certificates to senior officers and the departmental heads.