http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/chennai/Heritage-restoration-on-an-upswing-this-year/article13991991.ece

A raft of heritage buildings is being restored in the city. There are indications that the Government Central Press in Mint may be the first of these. Work on restoring the historic Kalas Mahal, which is part of the Chepauk Palace, is also progressing simultaneously.It may be recalled that both the heritage buildings were gutted in fires.The reconstruction of the British-era Government Central Press building is being carried out at a cost of Rs. 21.59 crore.Sources in the Public Works Department (PWD) said only a small portion of the Central Press, built in 1807, could be restored and the remaining had to be completely reconstructed.“ The single-storey is being constructed in an area of 70,500 sq.ft. and will be completed by July,” said a PWD.The 248-year-old Kalas Mahal is being meticulously restored as part of the Rs.14.5-crore project. About 50 skilled labourers are involved in reconstructing the Madras terrace roofing and strengthening damaged brick walls.Officials said restoring the heritage structure was time-consuming as it involved a long process of ‘pointing’ — a technique of repairing mortar joints and plastering using lime mortar. Work had to be suspended for a month due to floods and lack of building materials.“We are sourcing small bricks, which are used in Madras terrace roofs, wood rafters and lime from Rajapalayam. Work to reconstruct two of the four corridors is over,” said an official.The Department has expedited the process to renovate the ground floor that has been allotted for the National Green Tribunal, southern bench. The ground floor, spread over 24,000 sq.ft., will have three court halls and is expected to be completed in six months.The Department will also have to remove concrete from the roofing and reconstruct it and the octagon-shaped dome.A connecting corridor leads to Humayun Mahal, which had suffered a few collapses and was then hit by a fire in July last year. PWD sources said the Department was preparing to call for expression of interest to engage the services of a conservation architect.The architect will be entrusted with the task to design the restoration work in a week.