http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/High-Court%E2%80%99s-intervention-reveals-ugly-truth/article14006029.ece

: “Disgusting state of affairs” and “complete neglect by the government machinery” are the strongly worded observations made by the Delhi High Court on the state of mortuaries in the government hospitals of the Capital.The ugly truth of mortuaries has been revealed, during the hearing of a public interest litigation in the High Court, since last year.The matter was brought to the court’s notice through an appeal against conviction of a person for murdering his wife. Raj Kumar, who was convicted by a trial court, appealed the verdict in the High Court. During pendency of the appeal, Kumar died of tuberculosis in custody. After his body was shifted to the mortuary of a government hospital and kept there for some time, one of his eyes was found missing.Though the criminal appeal abated after the death of the convict, his lawyer R.P. Luthra brought the facts about mutilation of his body to the court’s notice. A Division Bench headed by Justice B.D. Ahmed took suo motu cognisance, while initiating a PIL on the issue on its own, and appointed High Court lawyer Saqib, as amicus curiae.Mr. Saqib visited mortuaries of several government hospitals. His status report depicted pathetic conditions in the morgues. The court took a serious note of the matter and passed a slew of directions to improve the conditions of mortuaries and protect their employees against exposure to bodies with communicable diseases.During the last hearing in December, the Bench, comprising Justice Ahmed and Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva, was informed of the lack of basic equipment at mortuaries.The court directed the Delhi government and other authorities in control of morgues to supply all material required for carrying out post-mortems and preservation of bodies.The amicus curiae told the court that some of the mortuaries were using outdated and rusted tools to carry out autopsies and did not have basic materials like salt for preserving viscera samples. While listing the matter for further hearing on February 17, the court directed the authorities to comply with the guidelines for dealing with the bodies in their “letter and spirit”.The court took note of Mr. Saqib’s statement that the basic materials, such as salt and PVC sheets for covering bodies, were not being supplied to the mortuary attached to Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital at Dilshad Garden. Similarly, the staff in the morgue attached to Aruna Asaf Ali Hospital was using outdated tools for carrying out autopsies.The Bench directed the amicus curiae to visit all mortuaries in the city and see if its orders were being complied with and the remedial measures being taken. In its previous orders, the court had directed the police to comply with a 1989 order on disposal of unclaimed bodies, as the status report made a mention of rotting piles of bodies.