http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Vijayawada/High-alert-sounded-for-R-Day-fete/article14019100.ece

With spurt in terror activities in different parts of the country and the spread of Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) and other terrorist outfits’ network, police and the intelligence authorities are making elaborate bandobust for Republic Day celebrations in the city.Sleuths of National Investigation Agency (NIA) recently arrested many ISIS activists and sympathisers, who planned attacks in Telangana, Maharashtra, Delhi, and other States during the Republic Day celebrations. Police seized explosive material and some weapons from their possession too.Officials are making arrangements for the Republic Day (RD) parade to be held at Indira Gandhi Municipal Corporation (IGMC) Stadium here on Tuesday in which Governor E.S.L. Narasimhan, Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu, a host of Ministers and bureaucrats will take part.Various government departments will display tableaus and students will perform cultural programmes, depicting patriotism, culture and tradition and thousands of people are expected to take part in the celebrations.“Security has been stepped up at IGMC, major hotels, government offices and guest houses as many VVIPs are likely to attend the RD parade. Besides, vigil has been kept on major temples, airports, bus and railway stations and other public places. Instructions have been issued to the State and central intelligence agencies to keep the CC Cameras at all public places under close watch,” said a police official.Director General of Police J.V. Ramudu, City Police Commissioner D. Gautam Sawang, In-charge Collector Gandham Chandrudu, Additional DGPs, Deputy Commissioners of Police, Sub-Collector G. Srujana, Revenue, Municipal Corporation and officers from other departments reviewed the security arrangements on Sunday.Contingents from Indian Army, Central Reserve Protection Force (CRPF), Andhra Pradesh Special Police (APSP) and other wings will participate in the parade.The police and revenue officials conducted rehearsals at IGMC and reviewed seating and parking arrangements for VVIPs, VIPs, officials, farmers, students and the general public on the ground.“The Intelligence Bureau (IB) sounded alert for the R-Day celebrations and security has been tightened along the State borders, check-posts, coastline, SDSC SHAR at Sriharikota and the power plants. A vigil has been kept on terror suspect groups and the affiliated organisations in the State,” an intelligence official said.