http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Kochi/History-of-sorts-for-judicial-commission/article14004550.ece

A judicial history of sorts will be created when Chief Minister Oommen Chandy will be examined by the G. Sivarajan Commission inquiring into the solar scam that rocked the State.It will go down in the annals of the political history as a significant development as the Chief Minister’s name and the involvement of his office was discussed during the controversy.The commission will examine Mr. Chandy on January 25 in Thiruvananthapuram as he volunteered to appear on that date. The panel decided to examine Mr. Chandy on the day from the State capital considering his convenience.The commission may directly examine the witness and record his statements. It will also decide on the question whether to allow the lawyers of the other parties in the proceedings to cross examine the Chief Minister.While appearing before the judicial commission, the Chief Minister can file a ‘proof affidavit,’ which could be his commentary on the whole development. The proof affidavit will cover the statement of facts and his statements made in response to the statements of other witnesses made before the panel during its proceedings.Submission of such a statement would save considerable time. He has the option of directly answering the queries of the commission. It would be up to the Chief Minister to decide on the course to be adopted at the commission’s sitting, sources said.On his appearance, the Chief Minister will be made to take an oath, like any other witness appearing before the panel. He will be offered a chair at the court room and could depose from there. He will not have to depose from the witness box as only accused will be made to sit inside the facility.During the panel’s earlier proceedings, Biju Radhakrishnan and Saritha S. Nair had to sit inside the witness box as they were the accused in the cases related to the scam, sources said.Though the names of some Cabinet Ministers and legislators have surfaced in the list of witnesses, the commission has not issued summons to them. Till now, the commission has examined 117 witnesses and 30 more may be examined. The panel could decide on extending or curtailing the list of witnesses. It had also examined 348 documents during the proceedings. The term of the panel could expire in April.