http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/HKRDB-approves-redirecting-funds-to-macro-projects/article13998571.ece

The third board meeting of the Hyderabad Karnataka Region Development Board (HKRDB) has approved re-appropriating Rs. 121 crore allotted to micro projects to macro projects taken up in the six districts in its jurisdiction.Briefing presspersons after a meeting, board chairman Qamarul Islam and secretary Aditya Amlan Biswas said here on Monday that due to problems pertaining to the selection of sites for the proposed works and other technical issues, micro projects worth Rs. 121 crore could not be executed and the funds have now been diverted to macro projects.Mr. Qamarul Islam said that the HKRDB also approved constructing all-inclusive M.Y. Ghorpade Panchayat Soudha in all gram panchayats that were formed after delimitation of constituencies in the six districts of Hyderabad Karnataka. Each such building will have a library, meeting hall, agriculture, marketing yard, village accountant office and gram panchayat office.A sum of Rs. 7.20 crore has been sanctioned for taking up the construction of such buildings in 20 new gram panchayats in the first phase.Mr. Qamarul Islam said that while macro projects in Kalaburagi district have been allocated Rs. 35 crore, Rs. 7 Crore has been allocated to Raichur, Rs. 2 crore for a cricket ground and stadium in Deodurg, Rs. 9 crore to Ballari, Rs. 12 crore to Bidar, Rs. 8 crore to Koppal and Rs. 5 crore to Yadgir districts.Apart from this, Rs. 2 crore has been allocated for the Visvesvaraya Tantrika Soudha, Rs. 2 crore for upgrading the cancer hospital, an additional Rs. 2.5 crore for buying equipment in the unit of Jayadeva Institute of Cardiology, all in Kalaburagi. Mr. Qamarul Islam said that the board has sanctioned establishing a regional exhibition and skill training centre on the Central University of Karnataka campus at Kadaganchi in Aland taluk at a cost of Rs. 3 crore and construction of a hostel and hospitality management centre in the university at a cost of Rs. 4 crore. A sum of Rs. 4.5 crore has been provided for repair and maintenance of rural roads in Kalaburagi district and Rs. 4 crore for Basavakalyan in Bidar district.He said that the board has launched a concurrent evaluation-cum-impact study to assess the felt needs of the people and ensure better planning, work selection and execution, and quality, and Rs. 60 lakh has been earmarked for this. A non-governmental organisation, Hyderabad Karnataka Centre for Advanced Training and Learning, has been asked to carry out the study. Besides, a pilot project for studying groundwater level, surface water storage and climatic conditions in the region and steps to mitigate drought and improve recharge will be taken up in 2016-17.The board would partner with Central University to start a museum of Hyderabad Karnataka region.