http://www.thehindu.com/entertainment/Hollywood-mourns-David-Bowie/article13994091.ece

Hollywood celebrities like Kanye West, Madonna, Joseph Gordon-Levitt, Rickey Gervais, Elijah Wood, Ruby Rose, Joe Manganiello and Mark Ruffalo paid tribute to legendary musician David Bowie, who died on Sunday, after 18 month long secret battle with cancer.The news of Bowie’s demise was announced through a statement posted on the singer’s official social media accounts. He was 69. Pop genius’ son Duncan Jones later confirmed the news.“Very sorry and sad to say it’s true. I’ll be offline for a while. Love to all,” he wrote. Actor Joseph Gordon—Levitt tweeted a line of Bowie’s famous song “Eight Line Poem.” “But the key to the city is in the sun that pins the branches to the sky...” Calling the British singer—songwriter one of the greatest inspiration, rapper Kanye West tweeted, “David Bowie was one of my most important inspirations, so fearless, so creative, he gave us magic for a lifetime.”Pop diva Madonna was devastated and shared series of tweet in tribute to the music icon. “I’m Devastated! This great Artist changed my life! First concert i ever saw in Detroit! RIP.”“So lucky to have met you!!!! Hot Tramp I love you So! #rebelheart,” she captioned a throwback photo.“Selma” helmer Ava DuVernay thanked the legend for his contribution in the world music. “’Time may change me. But you can’t trace time.’ Gosh. David Bowie. One of the greats. Thank you,” she tweeted.“Hulk” star Mark Ruffalo posted, “Rip Father of all us freaks. Sad sad day. Love always Legendary singer David Bowie dies at 69.”“Hoping this news about #DavidBowie isn’t true,” tweeted Travis Barker.“Lord of the Rings” star and DJ Elijah Wood said he never thought about the the world without the singing star.“Never imagined a world without him. He has ascended into the cosmos from whence he came. Farewell, David Bowie,” he wrote.“Rest in peace, David,” tweeted Foo Fighters.Singer Michelle Williams tweeted strength and love to the family.“Love and Prayers to @The_Real_IMAN and the family of #DavidBowie! Soooooo sorry to hear about the passing of another icon.”“People always asked me what actor I wanted to work with the most, and I’d always say David Bowie. Sad I’ll never get that chance. RIP,” Joe Manganiello tweeted.Ruby Rose shared a picture of David Bowie’s iconic image in the background of her concert.“RIP David Bowie. This was taken last night at my gig.. He was such an icon.. There is no other like him and there likely never will be. Big inspiration for me growing up,” she wrote in the caption.Canadian actor Will Arnett called Bowie, “greatest“.“You were my all time. You were the greatest. We’ll miss you more than you’ll ever know. #DavidBowie. We’re all Aladdin Sane,” he tweeted.Ricky Gervais said he lost his hero. “I just lost a hero. RIP David Bowie.”