http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Hone-skills-to-be-successful-professionals-students-told/article13987438.ece

K.C. Kondaiah, MLC, has exhorted students of professional courses to gain adequate knowledge and hone the required skills to emerge as successful professionals with expertise.He was speaking after inaugurating a convention of students of degree and management courses under the banner of Trends Tomorrow 2016, organised by the Ballari District Chamber of Commerce and Industry here on Thursday.“Expertise in every field has come to stay. Experts are required right from manufacturing a product to marketing it. Information technology has percolated into the rural areas with the use of computers and smart phones. All these provide tremendous scope for young professionals to grab the opportunity and get a good job. Along with professionalism, there is a need for the youth to hone the necessary skills by gaining knowledge from all sources to emerge as experts,” he said.M.S. Subhas, Vice-Chancellor Vijayanagar Sri Krishnadevaraya University, who was the chief guest, underlined the need for the youth to dream and strive to achieve it through hard work instead of whiling away their time chatting on social media.“Dreams are a driving force for one to move forward. It is only in India where our parents get us good education with the hope that we emerge successful in life. Apart from education, honing the necessary skills is important to become employable,” he said.Volunteering to extend all assistance if a skill development centre was established in Ballari, Mr. Subhas appealed to Mr. Kondaiah and president of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry Ramesh Gopal to ponder over the possibilities in this connection. “Ballari is not backward. It is we who are backward in thinking and dreaming. The opportunities are many and one has to grab them,” he said.Dr. Ramesh Gopal spoke about the mega marketing fair being organised as part of Trends Tomorrow, and also the job fair planned by the chamber.Mr. Kondaiah was felicitated on the occasion for being elected to the Legislative Council from the Local Bodies Constituency.Trends Tomorrow, a convention of students, inauguratedin Ballari