http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Horns-and-hues/article13994105.ece

A long time ago, during the reign of kings, the wealth of the State was mostly determined by its cattle, horses, elephants and harems. “Soldiers from one state would come and steal cattle from the other, provoking a fight. And, during an invasion, the defeated kingdom would be plundered of its cattle — the real property,” says senior artist A.V. Ilango. Later, bulls featured in veera vilayaatu — or games to test the bravery of men. Women would follow the rough sport from the balcony, and sashay towards the winners, garland, and even marry them. As time went by, the games lost relevance, but the significance of the cattle continues to be recognised during Pongal, when they are worshipped, splashed with colour and their horns adorned with trinkets.Jallikattu, the bull-taming sport and one of the veera vilayaatus, has had animal activists and enthusiasts of the sport lock horns in recent times. “It is a kalaachaaram (tradition) that we have been practising for ages, and I don’t think it should be stopped; of course, precautions have to be taken,” says Ilango, who has won multiple international awards.Ilango was born and raised in Gobichettipalayam (in Erode district), where Kangeyam bulls (an indigenous breed known for its draught strength) are reared, and then moved to Madurai (the hotspot of jallikattu) after marriage. As a teenager in Salem, he recalls mindlessly scribbling his assignments while gazing at two stud bulls that remained perennially tied to trees. “Probably, that somehow brought out the artist in me later,” says the 65-year-old.Bovine Series, which he started in 2004, has had several additions over the years. “The theme, which was inspired by various festival scenes (such as jallikattu) earlier, became more internalised. All of us alternate between two stages — being an arrogant Mahishasura or the docile Nandi,” he says. “So, taming the bull is more like controlling one’s ego and arrogance,” he says. A very similar concept was adopted by Picasso — when he painted a devil with a bull’s head (called Minotaur). Last year, in October, artist Muralidharan Alagar brought out a series of 40 paintings focussing on the game. His point — “Photos taken of the sport are, at times, misleading.” Muralidharan grew up in Chinnalapatti (in Dindigul district), where his grandfather reared jallikattu bulls. Passionate about the game, he visits Palamedu and Alanganallur in Madurai district every year, where the sport is practised. The artists say that the young men prepared all-year-round for the sport, avoiding intoxicants and any food that would slow them down.Sculptor P. Elanchezhiyan and sculptor and painter Arunagiri Somasundaram subscribe to similar sentiments. Arunagiri expresses it through a bronze — where the bull is jumping out of a courtroom stand, and Elanchezhiyan, through a series of works celebrating the game. Born in a farmer’s family in Thiruvarur, the sight of grazing bulls and cows was probably Elanchezhiyan’s earliest memory. His artworks revolve around bulls, their connection with mythology and spirituality, and are on view at Forum Art Gallery, Padmanabha Nagar, Adyar, till February 6.