http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Visakhapatnam/Hospital-at-Health-City-to-be-inaugurated-today/article13978664.ece

An exclusive hospital for ear, nose throat, head, and neck surgery will be officially inaugurated at the Health City here on Sunday.The Susruta Hospital for ENT, Head and Neck Surgery would be inaugurated by ENT specialist K.K. Ramalingam of Chennai on Sunday, hospital managing director P. Krishnam Raju told the media here on Saturday.The 50-bed hospital with state-of-the-art equipment for operation and post-operative care would be the first fully-functional hospital in the Health City, he said. The exclusive medical and health care services zone - Health City - spread over 160 acres amidst hills and away from the polluted urban atmosphere makes it best suited for speedy recovery of the patient, he added.Among adults, ENT cases account for 25 per cent of all medical complaints and among children it is 40 per cent. It is higher among women. The hospital has facilities to address all ENT issues and would cater to all sections of society. The hospital was established with latest equipment and keeping in view the developments in the field. It follows NABH and international standards. It is one of the largest exclusive hospital for ENT and head and neck surgery in the country.“Our aim is to develop the hospital into a world class tertiary care referral centre for ear, nose, throat, head and neck medical and surgical services,” hospital chairman S.K.E. Appa Rao said.The hospital would have ENT specialists available round the clock to attend on the patients apart from consultants who are on call. The hospital has three fully equipped operation theatres that enable doctors to take up collaborative surgeries, he added.The hospital has specialised vertigo clinic, sleep lab, voice clinic, hearing check-up, thyroid clinic, neck lump, and throat cancer clinic among others. Cochlear implantation and paediatric ENT surgery would also be taken up at the hospital.Snoring problemSnoring is a medical problem and causes reduced supply of oxygen to the person during his or her sleep. The oxygen shortage results in tiredness and makes the snorer remain drowsy throughout the waking hours.The drowsiness during the daytime can lead to fatal accidents on the road or reduce the productivity of the individual at workplace. There was a need to identify the issue and address it before it becomes a major issue, Dr. Appa Rao explained.The hospital would have ENT specialists round the clock apart from consultants on callS.K.E. Appa RaoChairman of the hospital