http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/Hospital-shelters-become-temporary-homes/article13981749.ece

: Diagnosed with blood cancer recently, 18-year-old Vipul stares blankly as he sits on the edge of his thin mattress. Much like other patients around him, who fill up the night shelter at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences he too, has made the camp-like structure his “temporary” home.The month-old shelter is managed by the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) allowing only patients and their relatives to stay in it for a maximum period of three days. With two separate makeshift units, the night shelter can accommodate up to 120 people.The AIIMS opened the facility in December to alleviate the hassles experienced by outstation patients and their accompanying relatives. A person using the shelter has access to washroom facilities, bed with blanket, and breakfast.It’s estimated that over 1,000 patients a day have been sleeping on the staircases of AIIMS metro stations, the pavements within the premises of AIIMS, and the footpaths. The institute also maintains a 450-bed night shelter at Safdarjung Hospital nearby.Vipul, who hails from UP, has been here for nearly a week now and admits that he has stayed back because doctors have prescribed daily injections. “I have no where else to go. And I cannot stay far away from the hospitals. It is a huge financial and physical drain to stay outside the hospital campus,” he said.There are many others like Vipul. Pramod Yadav (40) from Bihar says that the facilities offered at AIIMS are satisfactory. “The toilets and living facilities are clean. Though the government should look at providing some food. Delhi is a very expensive city for outsiders,” he said.Patients and their relatives also complain that treatment at AIIMS often takes weeks or months to complete. “This effectively makes the three-day stay period grossly insufficient and inconvenient for patients who may have to stay in longer,” says Dharmendra Singh, who hails from Bihar.“We can’t really stay here for more than three days, as is the norm,” rues Mr. Singh. The night shelter, which witnesses a steady stream of out-station patients, also lacks a locker with resident shaving to carry all their belongings, as and when they step out of the camp.Besides AIIMS, Lok Nayak Hospital and Hindu Rao Hospitals also offers shelter to the homeless in the city.(Anthony Rozario is an intern with The Hindu )