http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Hot-race-for-V-C-posts-in-Telangana/article13989932.ece

Some believe in destiny, while several in luck, but most professors in Telangana seem to have faith in lottery.The deluge of applications for the Vice-Chancellor posts of the nine Telangana Universities and many professors applying for all the nine universities is perhaps an indication of their belief in lottery system than the system itself. All these professors however are technically eligible to throw their hat in the ring with the Government reducing the mandatory 10 years professorship experience to just five years. But applying for all the varsities perhaps relates to their belief in luck rather than their credentials.“I don’t know in which scheme of things I will fit in. So I don’t want to fall behind in the race,” confided a professor, on condition of anonymity, who applied for seven universities. The number of applications has crossed 500 so far with around 200 eligible teachers staking claim as the last date for applications ends on Friday.Even in the combined State with many more universities, never there was such a mad race and this is just making mockery of the system. Irony is that a professor who believes in his capabilities to lead the historic Osmania University has also applied for a young university like the Telangana University, argue senior teachers.Academics apart several aspirants from research institutions and public sector undertakings are also testing the waters. A senior official said scientists from institutions like IICT, CCMB and other national research institutions have also sent their applications. A scientist from ECIL has also applied for the top post. They are in the race as the Government also invited applications from people with administrative experience in other institutions. Big institutions like Osmania University, JNTU and Kakatiya are obviously on the radar of many as the maximum number of applications have been received at these institutions.Many young professors seem to have chosen the new and smaller varsities expecting lesser competition. Blame it on ‘diluting’ the eligibility factors or the Government’s intention to open the field for non-academics, signal of non-seriousness has been sent to the society, feel senior professors who are opposing the dilution of UGC norms.Even in the combined State with many more universities, never there was such a mad race