http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/How-to-negotiate-with-the-help-of-a-translator/article14009251.ece

How do negotiators dealing with counterparts who speak another language modify their negotiation techniques to accommodate the lack of a common language? “The language of international business,” a British executive once said to Professor Jeswald Salacuse of Harvard University, “is broken English.”Fortunately for American negotiators, who usually don’t speak a foreign language well and often don’t speak one at all, much of global business is conducted in English — an English with a profusion of accents, cadences and syntaxes.Because translation complicates international negotiations, executives should manage and plan for it as they would any other negotiation tactic in deal-making. Based on Salacuse’s book The Global Negotiator: Making, Managing and Mending Deals Around the World in the Twenty-First Century (St. Martin’s, 2003), here are four simple negotiation strategies that can help you negotiate more effectively in translation.Hire your own translatorMake your choice carefully. Except in cases when special reasons for trust exist, do not rely on the other side’s interpreter unless someone on your team understands the language and can check the translation.Before hiring an interpreter, try to determine her skill and experience from independent sources, such as the United States consulate or the local branch of a multinational bank. In many countries, the linguistic ability of people who call themselves “professional interpreters” varies considerably.Hiring a mediocre interpreter can wreak unintentional havoc on the international negotiation process. Some years ago, an American negotiating team in China was astounded when its simple request to bring three typewriters into the country was rejected by government officials on the other side of the table. Only after an hour of wrangling did it become clear that the interpreter had mistranslated the English word “typewriter” as the Chinese word “stenographer.”Brief your translator before negotiations startA translator may be an expert in his language, but he rarely will be an expert in your area of business. Context gives words their meaning, but an interpreter seldom will know the business context of your deal.For this reason, you should brief your interpreter beforehand on the background of the upcoming business negotiation: the nature of your company, its business and the deal you hope to arrange.You also should explain what type of translation you expect. For example, if you want a word-for-word translation rather than a summary, make that requirement clear.Stay on guardSome interpreters, because of personal interests or ego, will try to take control of negotiations or slant them in a particular way. This risk may be especially high if the interpreter also works as a middleman, agent or business consultant and is hoping for future business opportunities from your deal.Guard against such power plays by learning enough about your translator to determine potential conflicts of interest and by staying alert throughout talks to ensure that your translator is not adding in personal business advice.Be sure to ‘chunk’ itWhen you negotiate in consecutive translation, speak in short, bite-size chunks, pausing after each one to give the interpreter a chance to translate your words. Inexperienced negotiators can become so engrossed in delivering their message that they forget to pause, or do so only after making a long statement. This can confuse the interpreter and contribute to inaccurate translations. When planning your presentation, remember to pause frequently.The importance of communication in effective negotiation, whether with international counterparts or with your own agents, cannot be understated. In order to create and claim more value for yourself and your company, you have to effectively negotiate in translation.(Adapted from Negotiation in Translation by Jeswald W. Salacuse, first published in the Negotiation newsletter.)© 2016 Harvard University