http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/How-a-father%E2%80%99s-political-clout-came-in-handy-in-a-son%E2%80%99s-victory/article13976062.ece

The sensational victory of Vijay Singh, son of the former Chief Minister N. Dharam Singh, with a record margin in the elections to the Legislative Council from the Bidar local bodies constituency proved yet again that Mr. Dharam Singh is still a force to reckon with, though he (Mr. Dharam Singh) suffered a shock defeat in the last Lok Sabha elections to political greenhorn Bhagwant Khuba of the BJP.Mr. Dharam Singh, who camped in Kalaburagi for more than 10 days to oversee the campaign of his eldest son, Mr. Vijay Singh, who had remained away from politics all these years, had the satisfaction of seeing his son winning the elections against all odds. He also disproved the argument posed by the BJP leaders that Mr. Vijay Singh was an outsider by building a bond with the majority Lingayat community and bridging the gap between the party leaders in the faction-ridden Bidar district unit.Mr. Dharam Singh, a staunch loyalist of the Indira Gandhi family, is among the very few Congress leaders who have remained with the party without shifting loyalty throughout their political career. Mr. Dharam Singh, who has won from the Jewargi Assembly Constituency eight times, resigned after being elected to the Lok Sabha from Kalaburagi in 1980 on the directions of the then Prime Minister late Indira Gandhi to accommodate the former Union Minister C.M. Stephen who had lost against the former Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee. (Mr. Stephen went on to win from the Kalaburagi Lok Sabha Constituency in the byelections and became a Minister in the Indira Gandhi Cabinet).Talking to The Hindu here on Thursday, Mr. Dharam Singh said that he was thankful to all the communities in Bidar district who supported the candidature of Mr. Vijay Singh and getting him elected with a record margin. Mr. Dharam Singh, who is known in political circles as Ajata Shatru” (a person who does not have an enemy), after his shock defeat in the last Lok Sabha elections from Bidar, never sat back but maintained his touch with the constituency and leaders which came in handy for his son now.It is again a case of two brothers — Ajay Singh, who represents Jewargi Assembly Constituency, and Vijay Singh — occupying seats in the Lower and Upper houses at the same time. The Shettars, Jagadish and Pradeep, have also been elected on the BJP ticket to the Lower and Upper Houses.