http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Visakhapatnam/HPVP-gets-order-to-build-compact-heat-exchangers-for-LCA/article14026459.ece

Heavy Plate & Vessels Plant (erstwhile BHPV), the 17{+t}{+h}unit of Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited, has received a shot in the arm by receiving two big orders from Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre of the ISRO and Aeronautical Development Agency in the Ministry of Defence.It received a prestigious order recently from Aeronautical Development Agency for construction of four new variants of compact heat exchangers of MK-II version of Light Combat Aircraft. The total order is of the value of Rs. 8.96 crore, sources told The Hindu .In recognition of its engineering expertise, HPVP will now build nine numbers of titanium alloy domes with improved manufacturing process after it successfully delivered seven domes to Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre, Thiruvanthapuram. The new order is worth Rs.2.12 crore while the seven domes built by it fetched HPVP an amount of Rs.1.65 crore.The order book position of the unit is expected to swell with BHEL as a whole has started doing well. Several tenders in power and industry sectors are at various stages. The demand for its legacy products including pressure part components for HRSG boilers and super critical boilers and process plant equipment is slowly increasing.By according top priority to R&D and engineering excellence, HPVP is able to provide various machines and components to its valued clients with modifications in the existing tool. “With this we are now able to make the fins for the new designed heat exchangers in-house saving valuable foreign exchange,” BHEL-HPVP Executive Director J. Sankaran stated in his Republic Day address to the employees.“We are also implementing modernisation scheme to meet the customer needs and to successfully overcome the challenges from our competitors. By ramping up existing facilities with state-of-the-art machines, enhanced turnover and cycle time reduction can be realised,” he stated. During the current year, the capital expenditure is likely to be Rs.15 crore.The total order is of the value of Rs. 8.96 crore