http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/Huge-turnout-to-pay-last-respects-to-NSG-commando-Niranjan-Kumar/article13980770.ece

BEL Grounds to which Niranjan E. Kumar once ran to every evening to play cricket with his friends today turned a venue for his friends and community to pay their last respects to him.Uday Kumar and Sanal K., the slain National Security Guard commando’s pre-university classmates at BEL College and who played cricket with him in the grounds, remembered the days when Niranjan was the jovial friend fond of batting. “But then also he would transform as soon as he wore his NCC uniform. He was very proud and fond of it,” Uday said.Niranjan’s body was earlier brought to the house at around 7.15 a.m. from Command Hospital, where it was kept through the night, accompanied by NSG commandos and officers from Madras Sappers. Emotions ran high as the family members were given the chance to see the body. The sombre mood gave way to cries and wailing at the house. More than 1,000 people from the neighbourhood had already gathered at the house by then and the body was later shifted to BEL grounds in a procession.The grounds saw a sea of humanity – his college mates, school friends, army course mates and others congregate to pay their last respects. Students from BEL School and College, of which he was an alumni, and BEL employees where his father served, was a community that had a large presence at the grounds. A BEL employee said that they felt like a loss in the family but at the same time they were proud that Niranjan served the country and made the supreme sacrifice.Chief Minister Siddaramaiah who paid his last respects said that the government will stand by the family and provide all help as in the case of Major Sandeep Unnikrishnan, who died during the 26/11 Mumbai carnage. Other politicians including Union Law Minister D.V. Sadananda Gowda, also the local MP and State Ministers paid their last respects.The mortal remains of Lt. Col. Niranjan Kumar will now be taken to Jalahalli Air Force Base from where it will be airlifted to Palakkad, Kerala. The body is expected to reach his native village by Monday evening and the last rites would be conducted on Tuesday morning.