http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/Humour-so-real-it%E2%80%99s-surreal/article14001900.ece

I believe humour has a purgative effect and this is why we laugh at funny stuff. We aren’t so much guffawing as we are heaving loud sighs of relief at the psycho-emotional burden we’ve just managed to shake off our backs. When we cringe-laugh at the jester, we’ve glimpsed ourselves in him, and are showering the unpleasant situation in endorphin-laced paroxysms to make light of it. Statistically too, this theory is on sound footing, given the amount of comedy that involves slapstick, injury and humiliation.For humour to take effect, a reader must identify with the jester. Only then will he or she truly reap the dividends of the comic denouement.Many writers over the ages have latched on to this concept not just to sell their books, but to avail the therapeutic effects of this phenomenon themselves. They cast themselves as their own characters and thus undergo a self-orchestrated catharsis tailor-made for them and their personal issues. Among the examples of this trope are Woody Allen’s Without Feathers and John Kennedy Toole’s A Confederacy of Dunces.***It’s debatable whether the characters Allen plays on screen or in his books are true reflections of his nature or simply invented personalities designed to arouse mirth. You know, the neurotic, slightly off-kilter scrawny Jewish man who’s always fidgeting? But at any rate, Allen fits the description. Without Feathers is an anthology of sorts. Published in 1975, it contains Allen’s own deepest confessions, a play or two in which he plays himself under a poorly disguised alias (I mean, he plays a ‘Kleinman’ in one), and several surreal passages. One can only assume that the “Weal”, a “large white mouse with the lyrics to ‘Am I Blue’ printed on its stomach”, was Allen coming up with the craziest thing possible so that he could then douse it in laughter.***Toole was a reclusive professor of English who had a deep Oedipal attachment to his mother and wrote heaps of fiction that were never deemed good enough to publish in his time. Well, Ignatius J. Reilly, the protagonist in A Confederacy of Dunces, too is a bit of a self-confessed genius who lives in his mother’s house, orates like a professor of English, and spends his unemployed hours constructing his magnum opus on loose sheaves. Also, Ignatius was given the same jobs — street-food vendor and factory employee — that Toole himself had held in his life. Toole committed suicide when he was 31, around the same age as Ignatius when he flees his mother’s home in the back of a Renault.