http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/tamil-nadu/Hundreds-of-students-stage-protest-at-MMC/article13991963.ece

Over 100 postgraduate students and house surgeons of Madras Medical College staged a protest on the college premises on Saturday morning.The protest follows an incident on Friday night, when a group of men, who had brought in a patient allegedly verbally abused and attempted to manhandle two students at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital.The students demanded the arrest of all four men, the setting up of a two-tier security system for the casualty and emergency sections and a limit on the number of attendants allowed.As of Saturday evening, two of the accused, Saravanan and Sabari, have been arrested while the other two are absconding. The men are believed to be cadre of the Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK).“At 9.45 p.m. on Friday, Sakthivel, a patient, was brought in – it was a case of assault. He had a scalp laceration. The patient was conscious. We were following the procedure, and registering an accident report. But the men with him began to abuse us asking why we were not treating him, asking us if we were doctors or not. We had already administered first-aid, but we hastened the process and sent him to the emergency ward. There, the process is, to take the history of the case. By that time a mob of about 20 people came in, pushing the two police personnel out of the way. They attempted to manhandle the doctors,” said a house surgeon.By 10.45 p.m., all the eight doctors there walked out and demanded an FIR be registered. The police managed to send the four men outside, said a student.“It took five hours for the FIR to be registered – it was finally done at 4 a.m. This is not the first time such an incident has occurred. We are constantly facing harassment and abuse and this has got to stop,” he said.This is the second such incident in less than a month – in December, doctors at the Institute of Child Health protested after the family of a child who died, allegedly assaulted a doctor.Other attacks on doctors in hospitals – both government and private too, have been reported over the years, and last year, a gangster ‘Bokkai’ Ravi Kumar was murdered at Government Royapettah Hospital.For Friday night’s incident, a case under Section 48 of The Tamil Nadu Medicare Service Persons and Medical Service Institutions (Prevention of violence and damage or Loss to property) Act 2008, has been registered, said a senior police officer attached to the Flower Bazaar police station.Cases under sections 294 B (sings, recites or utters any obscene song, ballad or words, in or near any public place) and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) of the Indian Penal Code have also been registered, he said.