http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/Hunting-wild-beasts-in-the-city/article13993937.ece

The monarchs who ruled the Indian subcontinent had a fascination for keeping captive wildlife, and organising wildlife hunts. The Mysore area was no exception! Quite apart from royal entertainment, the hunting, taming, and deployment of tamed wild beasts in court was a carefully planned strategic act, demonstrating kingly prowess and prestige. Hyder Ali had captive leopards and elephants. His leopards were so tame that he fed them by sweetmeats by hand. Hyder Ali also owned a rare black tiger, and a much-prized and loved docile massive 15-foot elephant called “Immambucies”. Hyder Ali’s son Tipu Sultan used captive tigers to punish offenders. As Hyder Ali’s chief of artillery, the Frenchman Maistre de la Tour, had noted, the tigers did not do well in captivity, and rarely survived over a year.Thus, the royal stock of captive wild animals needed frequent replenishment through hunting excursions. Narratives from this era demonstrate impressive knowledge about the ecology and behaviour of wild cats, such as the fact that leopards could be disoriented by covering their eyes. Hunts were strategically positioned using knowledge of tiger movement between the uphill forests and agricultural villages in the plains, depending on the season, availability of water, and abundance of prey. Royal battles were staged between tigers, elephants, and wild boars.The Mysore Wadiyars were keenly fond of wildlife hunts, and entertained and facilitated British officers who aimed to reduce their ennui by participating in urban shikar. Some of the most grotesque of these “hunting” encounters were staged in Bangalore in the early half of the 19th century. A typically gruesome account from 1811, written by Colonel James Welsh, describes the killing of three tigers over a period of two days on the Race Course. The “bravery” of the officers is mentioned a number of times, while the sacrifice of “a small rough dog” which did not leave the tiger until it was drowned, a sepoy who dived in to save the dog, two “black men” who ran into the path of the tiger to save a British officer (one of whom was killed with a single bite), and an Indian woman with her infant in hand who had to divest herself of her sari to save herself, were indifferently mentioned in passing. Welsh noted proudly that “only one European was ever badly wounded in these sports”. Quite naturally, because British officers were mounted on horseback, holding guns and spears, and buffered from the tiger by Indian peons and native dogs. This was a new nadir in using the hunt to demonstrate bravery and prowess, a bizarre farce considering the hapless animal was captured from the jungles of Channapatna or Magadi, and brought in a cage to be let out in an urban jungle.Hunting in Bangalore continued well into the 20th century. The Bangalore Hunt was well attended by Europeans, Anglo-Indians, and the Mysore royal family, and discontinued only in the 1940s. Yet wildlife, considered a threat as cities grew, began to be systematically exterminated much before. During an 18-month period in 1835–1836, 2,397 cattle and 14 human deaths were reported owing to wildlife attacks in Bangalore division. Rewards began to be offered for wildlife kills, and one elephant, 22 tigers, 55 cheetahs, 21 leopards and one bear were destroyed during the same.About two centuries later, we can hardly find evidence of wildlife around the city: while the fascination for watching spectacular YouTube videos of wildlife at a safe distance is only growing!(Harini Nagendra is a professor of Sustainability at Azim Premji University, and author of the book ‘Nature in the City: Bengaluru in the Past, Present, and Future’, by Oxford University Press India, forthcoming in April 2016. This article, which is the first in a four-part series, draws on material from the book.)