http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/Hyderabad-terror-links-with-country-wide-modules-not-new/article14022664.ece

It is not the first time that youngsters from Hyderabad are linked with a country-wide network of terror suspects. But the eight-member city-based module recently busted by National Investigation Agency (NIA) is different from the earlier ones busted by law-enforcing agencies.While Nafeez Khan, Obedullah Khan, Mohd. Sharif Moinuddin and Abu Anas were arrested, two of their associates -Kadir and Harshad- had already joined the Islamic State. The duo is believed be in Syria fighting on behalf of the IS. Two other members of this new group, which was part of a country-wide network of terror suspects planning to carry out attacks envisaged by the IS- are absconding.They were identified as Faizan and Arfan from Mallepally and Humanyunnagar localities. Not all the eight members were from same background. Nafeez stopped studies after passing 10{+t}{+h}standard and had worked as auto-rickshaw driver for some time. Obedullah Khan was into servicing computers while Kadir and Harshad were working with a software company after completing their graduation.Nafeez’s curiosity to browse Interent introduced him to websites encouraging youngsters to join IS.Youngsters from Telangana and Hyderabad getting attracted to terror outfits began nearly two decades ago. Tanzeem Islah-ul-Muslimeen, started by Abdul Kareem Tunda and Zaleel Ansari, carried out a string of blasts in 1993 in Mumbai and Hyderabad protesting against Babri masjid demolition.This outfit had cadre from the then united AP, Bidar and Gulbarga of Karntaka and Mumbai of Maharashtra. Some officers say the seeds for present-day ‘jihadi terror groups’ were sown by this outfit. Along with SIMI, the banned Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) too had tried to spread its tentacles in Hyderabad. One of its operatives, Salim Junaid, a Pakistan national, was caught in Hyderabad on the charge of conspiring to trigger bomb attacks in the city. Even Hizbul Mujahideen, another terror outfit, had operatives in Hyderabad.