http://www.thehindu.com/entertainment/I-will-be-happy-to-work-with-Sunny-Leone-says-Aamir-Khan/article14010132.ece

Bollywood superstar Aamir Khan on Wednesday spoke out in support of actress Sunny Leone, who was at the receiving end of harsh questions about her professional choices in a TV interview.During the promotional interview with a TV anchor Bhupendra Chaubey, Sunny was asked that while she would like to work with Aamir Khan, would Aamir Khan like to work with her.Sunny faced it sportingly, and it is this spirit that has impressed Aamir.“I think Sunny conducted herself with a lot of grace and dignity in this interview. I wish I could have said the same about the interviewer. “And yes Sunny, I will be happy to work with you. I have absolutely no problems with your ‘past’, as the interviewer puts it. Stay blessed. Cheers. Aamir,” Aamir posted on his Facebook page.He shared the same post on Twitter.Sunny acknowledged Aamir’s support with a re-tweet, which read: “I think my heart just dropped seeing this! Thank you so much for the support. It means the world and beyond to me.”After reading his tweet on his interest in working with her, she wrote: “Wow you just made my whole year saying that! I was just happy you wrote me back. Respect you dearly!”Sunny, who made inroads into Bollywood with “Jism 2”, is awaiting the release of her new film “Mastizaade”. It is to promote this sex comedy that she went in for the interview with Chaubey.The interview was tagged as “disgusting and sexist” by a string of celebrities, who expressed support to Sunny. Some of the questions asked were: “There are lots of married women who look at Sunny Leone as a threat to their husbands, do you not care about all this? A member of parliament, in his speeches, has held you responsible for corrupting Indian morality. How do you deal with that?” She was even asked: If Sunny Leone is becoming brand ambassador of New India, is that a dangerous trend to have?The anchor didn’t stop there. He also asked Sunny if she is the reason behind the growing porn watchers in India.“Since you have come to Indian cinema, the number of people watching porn has increased proportionately to the extent that we are now the world’s largest consumer of porn. Can you respond to that,” he asked.However, Sunny answered the queries with wit and poise, thereby garnering applause from known names of the film fraternity.