http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Visakhapatnam/IFR-Village-to-have-100-stalls/article14026487.ece

The IFR Village being readied at the Andhra University College of Engineering ground as part of the International Fleet Review, and in which the government and private organisations are participating, will have 100 stalls.Food stalls and stalls displaying handicrafts, handlooms and other products would be open from February 2, Collector N. Yuvaraj said after inspecting the preparations for the IFR Village and the Maritime Exhibition that is also being held on the AUEC ground.Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu would inaugurate the Maritime Exhibition on February 4th evening.Public are not allowed to visit the IFR Village on the afternoon of February 6 as Prime Minister Narendra Modi would be going through the village at that time.Mr. Yuvaraj inspected the arrangements being made for the IFR on Beach Road. Galleries on beach road accommodate 20,000 spectators and the beach sands 1.5 lakh people.Addl. DG reviewsAdditional Director General of Police (law and order) R.P. Thakur on Thursday has reviewed the arrangements being made by the police for the IFR. He held discussions with Commissioner of Police Amit Garg and others.The officials said police personnel should be polite and courteous towards spectators while being firm as far as the bandobust arrangements are concerned. Mr. Thakur felt the arrangements are good and was confident that the event would be held successfully.Rural police to set up postsSuperintendent of Police Koya Praveen said the rural police would set up check posts at seven or eight places on the roads leading to the city and intensify the combing operations in the Visakha Agency to thwart any plans of Maoists to resort to violence.After the murder of TDP leader Sagina Venkataramana at Jerrela on January 5, top Maoist leaders seemed to have left to Odisha where a meeting was organised. Meanwhile the militia members are trying to make their presence felt in the weekly shandies.