http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/chennai/Ilayaraja-enthrals-Russian-artistes/article14011445.ece

Folk artistes and gymnasts from Russia called on music composer Ilayaraja at his home in T. Nagar on Tuesday. They are in the city to perform at the Russian Culture centre.Around 11 artistes exchanged pleasantries with the legendary composer and even managed to get him sing a few lines from one of his celebrated songs, ‘Poove Sempoove’. The meeting happened just before the artistes were about to perform on stage with the maestro in attendance.The music composer had to use a translator to converse with the visiting artistes as they could speak only Russian. After the translator introduced the composer as one of the greatest composers in India, who started composing Communist propaganda songs, the Russian artistes quizzed him about his recent works and how he has managed to hold on to his own even after so many decades.Ilayaraja said that he felt no difference while making music now and then. “No matter what the technology is, we have to make music using the seven notes,” he told the artistes.He also spoke fondly about classical Russian composers such as Igor Stravinsky and said that he was very influenced by classical Russian composers. After inviting him to Russia, one of the artistes then told him about how Russians loved Indian films.Ilayaraja asked them to watch Bala’s Thaara Thappattai , which, incidentally, was his thousandth film in his career. When the composer told them that he must have composed more than 5,000 songs, the artistes were surprised.Ilayaraja was slightly taken aback when the artistes insisted on getting into their ballet costumes for a small performance in his home. , Ilayaraja said that he would come and see their performance the same evening. With the female dancers insisting that they would at least like to take a picture in their costumes, Ilayaraja eventually relented.Posing for a photo with the maestro, the dancers surprised him by showing off a popular ballet move. Another male artiste, requested Ilayaraja to let him play the piano. Ilayaraja let him play the notes. He later performed one of his famous songs, ‘Poove Sempoove’ to the visiting Russians, which was deeply appreciated.He sang, played the piano and posed for a picture