http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/news/Improve-efficiency-Fadnavis-tells-police/article13981617.ece

Irrespective of whether it is a bike theft or chain-snatching, Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis on Monday directed all police stations to ensure all petty crimes were duly registered and solved as it reflected the efficiency of the police force.Mr. Fadnavis, who also holds the portfolio of Home Ministry, directed Director General of Police (DGP) Praveen Dixit to ensure that no police station denied registering a crime, no matter how low it was in magnitude. The Chief Minister made the statement when he was hearing a case from Dhule district in Mantralaya on the occasion of ‘Democracy Day’.Advocate KK Rajput from Dhule, whose bike was stolen a few months ago, narrated his story to Mr. Fadnavis, explaining how the police station refused to register an FIR and kept on delaying the matter. In another incident in Dhule, the police are yet to register an FIR in a bike theft case of January 1.Expressing displeasure at the functioning of the police force, Mr. Fadnavis said, “The department’s efficiency will be decided only by judging the number of cases that affect common citizens, and those which are being solved. No matter how small the crime is, it has to be dealt with utmost seriousness. These are issues affecting people and need to be sorted on an urgent basis.” Following the intervention of Mr. Fadnavis, the Home Department will issue special directives in this regard. Earlier, Mr Fadnavis launched a Twitter account and Facebook page of ‘Swachh Maharashtra Abhiyaan.’ Nineteen cities in the State have been declared ‘open defecation free’ while the State aims to raise the number by adding 30 more cities to the list.The Twitter handle will be @SwachhMaha.CRacking the whipNo police station must deny registering a crime, no matter how low it is in magnitudeCM makes statement while hearing a case from Dhule on the occasion of Democracy DayFollowing the intervention of Mr Fadnavis, Home Department will issue directives