http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/In-line-with-online/article14010169.ece

On a recent visit to a relative’s house, the parents of an active nine-year-old told me about their son's ongoing fixation with Casio’s G-Shock watches. With a mixture of amusement and mild apprehension, they explained how the rugged and moderately expensive gadget was an unnecessary indulgence for his age, and how they got him a replica instead. “This is nice, but this is what I want,” says the precocious child, plonking down next to me, picking up his father’s phone and promptly Googling up an image of the object of his desire. “The Internet has turned out to be more trouble than we realised!” his parents tell me.This is the story of Generation Z, broadly defined as children born after the year 1995. With access to the connected world at such an early age, their mental development, and speed of learning and adapting to technology, is often at a pace that is hard for elders to keep up with.A recent survey conducted by Tata Consultancy Services (TCS), of nearly 13,000 students aged between 12 and 18 from 1,800-odd schools in 15 cities, revealed that smartphone and social media access is on the rise, and online shopping has become the norm, with Kochi being right in the centre of the action.According to TCS Global Communications Head Pradipta Bagchi, this is a positive sign, “The youth of Kochi are socially collaborative, technologically aware and are true digital natives. The survey showed a lot of positive traits, such as use of online resources for study, with study material even being shared over WhatsApp. We found that 18 per cent of the participants in Kochi went online to learn a new hobby and 15 per cent for school assignments. Interestingly, 42 per cent still prefer face-to-face communication over its online counterpart, which shows a level of maturity.”This comfortable adoption of a technologically linked world is something parents and teachers are coming to terms with. Susan Varghese Cherian, principal of Rajagiri Public School, agrees that access to available resources cannot be denied, within acceptable limits. “Children these days are technologically-savvy and not at all hesitant in embracing new platforms. I feel this should be allowed, with a clearly defined list of dos and don'ts. Parents play the primary role in guiding children, but educational institutions must also sensitise children on the opportunities and potential hazards of the online world. While it has many merits, it can also be captivating to the point of addiction.”While the older section of Generation Z, in their late teens and early twenties are now considered mature enough to have full access to devices and services of their choice, the increasing number of primary schoolers getting online poses regulatory challenges, and the line between indulgence and restraint is a tough one to walk for parents. Shikha Menon, who's nine-year-old daughter got her first tablet at the age of seven, and a smartphone a couple of years later, does not fully agree with the idea of children having their own Internet-connected gadgets at an early age. “I do not endorse the idea, but I went along with my husband's reasoning that these technologies exist, so we might as well teach her to use them responsibly at an early age, with guidelines to go along with it. On a positive note, I have found that it makes her self -sufficient. When she has a doubt, she Googles it herself and learns about things.”With every aspect of daily life becoming connected to technology and the Internet, the decision on how much and how soon the upcoming generation gets to access its full potential remains a tricky one. As my G-Shock obsessed companion led me to the neighbouring house where his cousin was engrossed in a game that tested dexterity and reflexes, I was taken aback with the ease which the 10-year-old tapped and flicked his way through a series of rapidly moving objects. For someone who got his first computer at the ripe old age of 13 this was hard to comprehend; for Generation Z, this is just another day in the classroom.Connected Kochi88 per cent of respondents said that they use Facebook and 42 per cent use Twitter.WhatsApp is the messaging platform of choice, hauling in 80 per cent, SMS is on its way out with 11 per cent.29 per cent spend at least 15-30 minutes a day online.82 per cent shop online, with boys preferring electronic gadgets while girls go for books and clothes.Interestingly, traditional media continues to be relevant, with TV and newspapers being the primary means of news consumption for 79 per cent of the respondents.(Source: TCS Survey)