http://www.thehindu.com/features/homes-and-gardens/In-search-of-cleaner-pastures/article14001518.ece

It is a bit odd to want to live in a smoggy city even if there is little hope for things getting better. We were alarmed by photographs of citizens in China’s bustling metropolises going about their daily lives with their faces covered. Little did we realise that our lives would seem quite similar just a few years down the line.Who wants such development? Why would anyone wish to live in a city that doesn’t offer safe air to breathe? Soon, people will see greater value in living in towns and cities that offer healthier living. And this could mark a shift to homes in less congested and industrialised regions, and those with a relatively lesser possibility of being contaminated by the ills of mechanised development.The well heeled have already started staking out farmhouses in regions not too far from today’s big urban centres. These regions might well become the coveted havens of the upwardly mobile. Given this, it may be wise to head out to the countryside now and stake your claim to a better life, to retire to when you opt out of the cities of rats and races.There are many regions in India, still relatively untouched and unscathed by modern excesses. Some states in particular boast of a higher forest cover and underdevelopment, so far as manufacturing and polluting industries go. Madhya Pradesh is one among these.Developers in cities like Bhopal have been trying to hard sell modern amenities, the economic scope, and investment potential in these cities to citizens with surplus incomes in the bigger metros. They are seeking a small share of the investor money that sloshes around in the big cities.Perhaps, such developers might try selling underdevelopment and green living to urban, stressed, but affluent individuals, who might find such a proposition far more appealing. In 2016, do yourself and your loved ones a favour. Buy them a home away from the maddening crowd. Go buy land in the undiscovered India, and you will likely be rewarded handsomely. Make that holiday home your home. Happy New Year!Former Editor, Outlook Business and Executive Editor, NDTV Profit, the writer is a personal finance expert. Mail him at propertyplus@thehindu.co.in