http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/In-an-unenviable-situation/article14018942.ece

It is not often that a Chief Minister gets to handle several sensitive portfolios. The prudent ones always take care to allocate key portfolios to colleagues in whom they have more trust than what the word normally means. But there could be situations when the portfolios given to others return to the Chief Minister’s care under unedifying circumstances, as has happened with Oommen Chandy who is now burdened with Fisheries, Excise, Ports and Airports portfolios, besides the heavier Finance portfolio.With elections round the corner and new crises breaking out every other day, Mr. Chandy appears left with very few choices.He can possibly entrust the four portfolios that Mr. K. Babu used to hold to someone else, but might still have to keep the Finance portfolio as it does not look easy at this point of time for Kerala Congress (M) leader K.M. Mani to return to the Cabinet. In short, as the final days of his government rolls past, Mr. Chandy is likely to be there holding on his shoulders a heavy burden even as he battles his way through challenges likely to be thrown his way by courts and the solar judicial commission.The Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) is facing trying times. A succession of adverse remarks from various courts has assailed the agency's credibility in public eye. Echoing, arguably, the public's perception of the agency, Leader of the Opposition V.S. Achuthanandan has demanded that it be disbanded.The agency's biggest bug bear in recent times has been the politically stormy bar licence renewal bribery case. Its officers have been criticised for flip-flopping on several key issues in the graft case involving Mr. Mani and Mr. Babu, both Cabinet Ministers till recently.The agency has been trying to fend off allegations that its investigating officers had deliberately dismantled evidence available on record to legally insulate the former Ministers from the accusations raised against them in court. However, much of the agency’s effort to salvage its image seems to have been in vain in the face of severe criticism from the judiciary.Its former Director Vinson M. Paul had voluntarily exited the post after the court rejected the agency's report that absolved Mr. Mani of any guilt in the case. Sankar Reddy’s posting as the new director was also fraught with problems. There were resentful murmurs in the police department that the government had passed over at least three senior officers to elevate him to the post.Uncertainty, anxiety and anticipation measure high in the political barometer of Kannur these days. Political, legal, law enforcement and media circles in the district are abuzz with speculations about CPI(M) district secretary P. Jayarajan who has been hospitalised in the party-administered AKG Hospital ever since his anticipatory bail application was rejected on January 19. The air has only grown thicker since the Central Bureau of Investigation named him as one of the accused in the Manoj murder case.At the centre of these speculations doing the rounds is whether or not Mr. Jayarajan’s arrest is imminent.The CPI(M) leadership here puts up a brave face by saying that they will wage legal and political battles against what it sees as a bid to incarcerate the party district secretary under an alleged Sangh Parivar agenda.But in private some of the party leaders do not hide their sense of anxiety, their main concern being the electoral prospects of the public perception on the whole issue.With inputs fromS. Anil Radhakrishnan and G. Anand(Thiruvananthapuram)and Mohamed Nazeer (Kannur)