http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/society/In-praise-of-Ghulam-Ali/article13997379.ece

It is time to let music flow, unhindered, unfettered. There is excitement, euphoria and exhilaration on the eve of Pakistani ghazal maestro Ghulam Ali’s recital in the capital city tomorrow (January 15) and in Kozhikode (on January 17). Veteran Umbayi is ecstatic when he remembers the legendary ghazal singer’s visit to Mumbai in the late 70s.“I was living there in those days. I couldn’t enter the venue, Shanmughananda Hall, but watched the concert standing outside, on television. While Mehdi Hassan connected more with the elite, it was Ali who took ghazals to the grassroot level. Fortunately, I was able to be with him during his visits to Kozhikode and Kochi. When I first saw him in Kozhikode, he came up and hugged me, taking me by surprise. His humility amazed me, so did his sense of humour. As for the unrest surrounding his visit, I don’t understand why there is so much hatred when it is all about music, which has no religion,” says Umbayi.With a voice that knows no boundaries, either man-made or geographical, Ali has stuck a soulful chord with music lovers across the globe. The 75-year-old Ali is a “courageous musician” for singer-composer Shahabaz Aman. Shahabaz has written thus about Ali in his book Om Allah: “You know, there exists a bridge between his fingers that play on the harmonium and his vocal chord. There is such variation in his voice that it goes on to touch unpredictable heights.”It is not surprising that the singer evokes awe and reverence among young vocalists in Kerala. Youngster Manjari sings his ghazals at her concerts. “I have a lot of well-wishers who enjoy the Ustad’s ghazals. I feel honoured in that way. One song that I have rendered at many places is ‘Hungama kyu barpa…’. There is an ease about him even when he is singing the most complicated of ghazals. That is why he is Ghulam Ali,” she says.Age might be catching up with the legend and, at times, there might be fatigue in his voice. But that does not affect the brilliance of the musician. “His thinking is amazing. He is of a totally different school where improvisation holds the key. He may not sing a lengthy song, may be one of five to six minutes. But he can sing the same line in 18 different ways! Above all, he never sings a line the same way twice. He creates a universe with his music,” gushes Gayathri Asokan, adding that the album Meraj-e-Ghazal by Ali and Asha Bhosle is her all-time favourite. “Though Malayalis may not understand all the lyrics in Urdu, we have a music culture that is receptive to all kinds of music. It is definitely an honour that he is performing here,” she adds.While Gayathri has heard the legend “live many times”, many amongst the young lot will be hearing the singer live for the first time, playback singer Sithara, for example. “I grew up listening to him, thanks to the musical culture of Kozhikode. He is one musician who belongs to the whole world. And I am really looking forward to listening to him in the city…,” she says.Shahabaz Aman, says, “We are lucky that we could touch him, we are blessed that we could listen to his voice.”For the legendComposer–singer M. Jayachandran has come up with a special composition in honour of Ghulam Ali to be played at the state reception accorded to him. “The song, ‘Salaam Ghulam Ali’ has been written by Manoj Yadav and sung by Nivas. The chorus will have some of our leading singers,” he says. Vaikom Vijayalakshmi will render ‘Chup chup ke’ and Aparna Rajeev will sing ‘Yun sajaa chand….’ at the event. “He is one musician who has inspired generations of musicians. We shouldn’t make music a ‘ghulam’ (slave) to intolerance,” he says.Tryst with KeralaFilmmaker T.K. Rajeev Kumar is making a documentary on Ustad Ghulam Ali’s tryst with Thiruvananthapuram and Kerala. “Three decades ago, in 1984, poet Balachandran Chullikad had written a poem on the Ustad and his music. He imagines an evening of glorious music with the Ustad. He wrote those evocative lines when the hate campaign against artistes was simmering in Mumbai. Balachandran expresses his angst and agony in well-chosen words Unfortunately, 30 years later, the hatred had not melted with the passage of time. It has intensified and it is at such a time that the poet’s lines assume even greater significance. I am capturing the moments when the poet meets his muse in person in Thiruvananthapuram,” explains Rajeev.The 20-minute documentary will focus on the poet and the Ustad and their meeting. The filmmaker says that such cultural ventures are the need of the hour in these troubled times. He hopes that Ghulam Ali’s music acts a balm to ease the tension and anger everywhere.– Saraswathy Nagarajan