http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/In-a-first-Mysuru-to-also-host-BIFFes/article13989542.ece

For the first time, Mysuru will also host the Bengaluru International Film Festival (BIFFes) this month.The 8th edition of Bengaluru International Film Festival will be held simultaneously in Bengaluru and Mysuru from January 28 to February 4.Another first is that the Chief Minister will be leading the International Film Festival’s Organising Committee.Minister for Information and Public Relations R. Roshan Baig will be the Executive Chairman. While the inaugural ceremony will be held at Vidhana Soudha in Bengaluru on January 24, the closing ceremony will be held in Mysuru on February 4, S.V. Rajendra Singh Babu, chairman, Karnataka Chalanachitra Academy, Bengaluru, told reporters in Mysuru on Friday.The registration fee for public is Rs. 600 and Rs. 300 for students, members of film societies, senior citizens and representatives of film industry. Regular screenings for the delegates will commence from January 29.The screenings will be held at 11 screens under one roof in Bengaluru – PVR cinemas at Orion Mall, Rajajinagar, Bengaluru and four screens in Mysuru — at INOX Cinemas, Mall of Mysuru.Over 170 films from 61 countries will be screened in the seven-day festival, Mr. Babu said.There will be three competition sections at this year’s festival – Asian competition (12 films), Indian competition (13 films) and Kannada competition (15 films). Also, there will be an additional International Jury for Kannada Cinema, a release said.Like in the previous edition, the films will be screened under contemporary cinema of world; country focus: Mexico, Iran and Turkey; directors’ retrospectives: Istvan Szabo of Hungary and Nils Malmros of Denmark; artist retrospective: Dr. B. Sarojadevi; Dada Saheb Phalke Award Winners’ Vintages: Mrinal Sen, Adoor Gopalakrishnan and tributes: Siddalingaiah and K S L Swamy (Ravee), the release added.RegistrationDelegate registration can be done at: Badami House, N.R. Square, Bengaluru, and Suchitra Film Society, BSK Stage, Bengaluru. Registration facility will also be extended to the Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce premises in Bengaluru and Information Department Office at Mysuru. Online registration facility is also available at biffes.in8th edition of Bengaluru International Film Festival will be held from January 24 to February 4