http://www.thehindu.com/features/downtown/In-the-service-of-the-visually-challenged/article13977029.ece

Old no 19, New no 8, Easwaran Colony, Nanganallur – it sounds like a regular address and from the outside, it looks like just another independent house. But it is sustaining an initiative that is by no means ordinary. For over 10 years, Nilacharal Ashram, as the house is known, has been home to dozens of visually challenged girls from villages, who have come to the city to pursue their dreams.M. Radhakrishnan is the driving force behind the initiative. Through Rajeswari Radhakrishnan Charitable Trust, which he started after taking voluntary retirement from Indian Bank, has been funding the dreams of many visually challenged girls. Here, girls are taught how to operate computers and other skills to enable them to have a livelihood. Readers are available at the Ashram and girls study through resources in Braille.An ambition to serve the visually-challenged gripped Radhakrishnan in 1999, when he was moved by the sight of five girls who were talking about having no food to eat on a rainy day.“We began by supporting two girls, after converting my independent house into a hostel where they are provided free food and lodging,” he says, flipping through files of applications he gets from people seeking help. The hostel can accommodate 12 to 15 girls and they are selected on the basis of merit.In the subsequent years, Radhakrishnan extended his service by launching an e-library at the Ashram.“Not many reading sessions are conducted in rural areas. To help such students, we courier them CDs of various subjects that can be accessed on the computer,” says 63-year-old Radhakrishnan. The Ashram also houses a free book bank for college students.The Trust also bears the educational expenses of 42 children of young widows. “Over 100 students have benefited so far,” he says.Radhakrishnan says he meets these expenses with his monthly pension, as also with the money provides by sponsors.“Every year, I get a donation from 40 of my former colleagues. I don’t have any other expenses; with whatever I have, I help the most deserving,” he says.He can be reached at 91768 55310, 2224 5087.