http://www.thehindu.com/books/literary-review/In-love-with-many-Istanbuls/article14001635.ece

You won’t find a new country, won’t find another shore.This city will always pursue you. You will walkthe same streets, grow old in the same neighborhoods,will turn gray in these same houses.You will always end up in this city. Don’t hope for things elsewhere:there is no ship for you, there is no road.—The City by C. P. CavafyIn his trial, where he was held guilty for criticising the Armenian genocide, Orhan Pamuk claimed that he was a die-hard lover of the city of his birth, Istanbul, where he lives: “There is no other city to go to: The city that makes us is the one within us.” It is understandable that anyone passionate about nationalism would make his city of love fundamental to his writings. Reading the poem ‘The City’ by the Egyptian poet Cavafy, Pamuk says that it has changed the way he has looked at his “own Istanbul”: “I love Cavafy’s poetry not just as a reflection of his exemplary life, but also for the landscape it depicts, for its crumbling buildings, and because I immediately identify with the texture of Mediterranean life.”Pamuk has spent over half a decade in writing his new novel , A Strangeness in My Mind, which takes you from the aristocratic social world of The Museum of Innocence with its paraphernalia of lavish parties, clubs, and society tittle-tattle to the story of Mevlut and his plebeian life in Istanbul as a street vendor of a yogurt-based alcoholic drink called boza, a traditional Turkish brew reminiscent of the good old days. Mevlut strikes the reader as a sensitive being who does not allow the experience of deprivation to dilute his inherently happy disposition.Selling boza till the end, Melvut meditates on the chequered history of Istanbul, reflecting on the unpredictability of its fate, straddling as it does two worlds, one eager to move on and the other absorbed in cultural politics. Pamuk’s vision of the much-needed link between the West and the East, between an antediluvian Islamic culture and the modern dream of prosperity, is entangled with a passionate commitment to memory and humanity that finds resonance in the novel. Shelley WaliaThe story of Mevlut is the story of love, though it transcends the world of romance to a level that is both emotional as well as historical in its location at the heart of a socially and economically vibrant society. His love for the 13-year-old Rayiha he sees at a wedding, his writing love letters to her for three years, and then running away with her to Istanbul only to discover that he has been mistakenly writing letters to the wrong sister, brings him, in the words of Wordsworth, to ‘melancholy thoughts, a strangeness in my mind, a feeling that I was not for that hour, not for that place.’ Seeing her face in the dark when they are escaping leaves him with a peculiar strangeness in his mind that he cannot describe, that he will struggle to define all his life. However, seeing how she has loved him through his letters, he subdues this strangeness and gives himself completely to her.Parallel with his desire to appreciate his beloved, he experiences four decades of transformation in Istanbul, the transformation that has come to the people of his land as well as to the city. He experiences in the majestic beauty of his Istanbul, a city poised on the crossroads of Asia and Europe, the interface between cultures, a diasporic persona in a rigid Islamic society struggling to shed its dark Ottoman past. Political clashes and military operations that tarnish the order of peace intercept his love for women and for the city, which becomes a palpable character in the novel.Mevlut focuses on the city where he first arrived when he was 12, not from the point of view of a statesman but from that of a hawker who tries to understand the pain and suffering of others. As Pamuk would say, ‘Approach these problems because you can go into more shady areas, areas where no one is right and no one has the right to say what is right’. That’s what makes this novel a politically interesting work of historical romance that takes up the polemics of Turkey’s identity within the context of its imperial past, juxtaposing tradition and modernity, continuity and change in a style that blends mystery, romance and philosophical puzzles with the tension between East and West, between country and city. Mevlut, like Pamuk, transcends the political and reaches out to a more romantic view of his existence.Pamuk explains in A New Life the challenges of a historical novel which “is not to render a perfect imitation of the past, but to relate history with something new, enrich and change it with imagination and sensuousness of personal experience.” The past has to be remembered and no amount of Westernisation can justify the neglect of one’s history. ‘If you try to repress memories, something always comes back,’ he says. “I’m what comes back.”Shelley Walia is Professor and Fellow, Department of English and Cultural Studies, Panjab University, Chandigarh.