http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/In-death-veterinary-doctor-saves-three-lives/article14018618.ece

A 37-year-old’s family gave a fresh lease of life to three people awaiting organs in city hospitals on Sunday by donating his organs after he was declared brain dead at the MGM Hospital in Vashi. This was the third cadaver donation recorded in 2016.Neral resident and veterinary doctor Chandrakant Nerker, 37, was admitted to MGM Hospital in Vashi on January 22 at around 12.30 a.m after he suffered a stroke while riding his bike. He had suffered serious head injuries and his condition did not improve. He was declared brain dead next day, following which the hospital staff counselled the family to donate his organs.“They agreed to donate his kidneys and liver. After completing all formalities, we informed the Zonal Transplant Coordination Committee,” said P K Sashanker, hospital administrator. Patients were picked based on the waiting list, one of whom was Chandra Kiran Sahu, 60, from Kopar Khairane who was on dialysis for the last five years. Doctors said she had responded well to the transplant and is stable.The organ retrieval exercise started at around 2.30 a.m. on Sunday and was over by 7.30 a.m.The liver was transplanted in a 64-year-old man at Jupiter Hospital. The Koparkhairane resident, 59, underwent the kidney transplant at MGM hospital and the second kidney was donated to a 45-year-old woman at Fortis Hospital, Mulund.Officials at the Zonal Transplant Coordination Committee said the patients who received the organs had been on the waiting list for long. “The patient at Fortis was on the list for the last two-and-a-half to three years,” a ZTCC official said.While the awareness to donate organs is gradually increasing, the waiting list is still long and the waiting period stretches into years. If there are 150 people on the waiting list for liver, as many as 3,000 patients are on the waiting list for kidneys.“Once a patient is on dialysis, he can register with the ZTCC for a kidney,” an official said.On Sunday, after the organs were retrieved, Nerker’s body was handed over to the family and the hospital arranged an ambulance for it to be taken to their native place in Dhule for performing the last rites.Incidentally, on Sunday Jaslok Hospital felicitated families of organ donors who took the call to donate the organ of a loved one. The speakers highlighted cases such as those of a mother-in-law donating a kidney to her daughter-in-law or in one case to a daughter-in-law’s mother.January has seen much activity in organ donations, including inter-state heart transplants.Doctors at the helm of organs transplants said though it appears transplants have picked, there is much awareness still needed.He was declared brain dead at the MGM Hospital in Vashi