http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/In-the-path-of-memory/article13988539.ece

Nenapina Suruli TeredaagaBy H.S. DoreswamyLankesh Prakashana, Rs. 125Many memoirs of political activists are manifested by nostalgia and loss of faith in the contemporary dispensation. Their narratives consist of an idealised past and a decadent present. They eulogise their work and get absorbed with their personal travails of the past. Lot of big political names are dropped to prove their points. Some might even sound cynical about the present generation of men and women. But, the memoir of the well known Gandhian, H.S. Doreswamy (b.1918) - Nenapina Suruli Theredaagais different in many ways. In this narrative there is hardly anything about his personal life, his family and children. He does not speak much about his domestic life at all. Here is a public man who speaks about his contribution to public life in different ways and in different capacities. As a teacher, as a timber merchant, as a journalist, as a social and political activist, his path is very clear and it is that of a Gandhian.Doreswamy is one of the very few living examples who follow the most quoted Gandhian adage - “Be the change you wish to see in the world”, both in word and deed. From the Quit India movement in 1942 to the most recent agitation against Cargill Salt Company, Doreswamy’s agitations are marked by his selflessness, simplicity, honesty and sincerity. Imprisonment in the wake of Quit India Movement in 1942 and emergency in the independent India in 1975, Kaiga movement and many such issues make him a unique political personality around us. He has been instrumental in many major social, political and cultural interventions in India, more particularly in Karnataka to make public life morally and materially better.Doreswamy is an exceptional personality. He had thick friendship with comrades in the communist party and also with strong RSS activists. He does not seem to think that this is a contradiction. There is an interesting episode depicted in the narrative where the labour union leader and a communist N.D. Shankar was brought into nationalist struggle; he had to displease his RSS friends like Jayadev, Joshi and Suryanarayana while he upholds his own newspaper’s researched view that Nathuram Godse had strong links with the RSS. Even while being a committed Congressman, (unlike the present ones who feel scared to talk about the ‘high command’), he never shied away from speaking the truth. He displeases many by his forthright remarks on the casteist inclination of congress leaders. There is no romanticization of the past public figures either. Even people of eminence like Kengal Hanumanthaiah, and Kuvempu come under his scrutiny. He criticises them on their being inept in handling of issues related to caste. His concerted actions against alcoholism, cow slaughter, communalism, his poverty alleviation programmes, his contribution in the Bhoodan movement under the direction of Vinoba Bhave, are well known.He is not just a man of politics. He has been an educationist. In association with another Gandhian, R. Gopalakrishna Iyengar, he has built an educational Institution called, ‘Bharathmatha Vidyamandira’ which is now a popular school in Hanumanthanagar in Bengaluru. He started a co-operative bank with the help of many of his friends in the same area which has also become prosperous now.His association with many distinguished people like M. Visvesvaraya, litterateurs like Masti, Bendre, Kuvempu, B.M. Shri, V. Seetharamaiah, and educationists like MPL Shastry, H.Narasimhaiah and others give a glimpse of the man who is still around us.Though in terms of information this book is very useful, it does not give insights into the making of the Gandhian. His righteous indignation against many issues in the Indian polity is well recorded. But there is hardly any rumination on why he chose to live by Gandhian ideals, which is what is expected in a book like this. His tryst with Gandhi is also very brief which happens in Nandi Hills in one of the prayer meetings early in 1942. A reader would expect in a memoir like this why the ideas of Gandhi attracted him more than any other ideologies prevalent then (like Communism, INA or RSS).At the end of the reading, one would observe that a slick editing would have made the book extremely readable. There are many asides and some observations, though genuine, lack direction. However, if someone wants to have an experience of an ideal man around us, this book is strongly recommended.