http://www.thehindu.com/books/In-praise-of-the-deities/article14011955.ece

In the post-Swati period, many vaggeyakaras enriched the repertoire of Carnatic music. Almost all of them were understandably drawn to the treasure trove of this highly evolved form of music. V.R. Prabodhachandran Nayar, renowned linguist and scholar, is, however, an exception. He is a votary of Keralasangeetham, the norms of which he has often strived to safeguard against the onslaught of hardcore Carnatic vocalists and music scholars. His flair for poetry and lyrics finds expression in the anthology, Prabodha Sangeetham.Fifty select compositions of the author along with notations form the content of the book. All the lyrics are set to familiar ragas such as Kalyani, Kamboji, Natta, Nattakurinji, Panduvarali and Shanmukhapriya. As certified by veteran Carnatic vocalist Parassala B. Ponnammal, each composition is noted for its forthrightness, lucidity and brevity. While Prabodhachandran Nayar profusely employs Sanskrit words in his compositions extolling the Goddess, several of the lyrics on Lord Krishna are in chaste Malayalam.Prasanna Varade! Pramoda Bharithe!/Prasada Janya Praharsha Lasithe! can be read vis. a vis. his lines on Krishna, Ambalapuzhayile Chembakameyyane/Ambalakkadavathu Kathirikkum Njan. In all the compositions, Prabodhachandran Nayar, an ardent devotee of deities such as Attukal Bhagavathy, Palkulangara Bhagavathy, Lord Guruvayoorappa, Muruka and Ganapathy, uses each and every word to underscore his unalloyed theism. All the compositions of the Trinity invariably carry their signature. Swati Tirunal compositions, for instance, have Padmanabha as the ‘Namamudra’. Likewise, the compositions of Prabodhachandran Nayar carry his signature, which is ‘Bodha’.In choosing the words for his creations, the author strictly adheres to tradition. His metaphors and imagery are at times a bit trite. Many gifted lyricists right from Irayimman Thampi to Ramesan Nair and Girish Puthenchery have portrayed Lord Krishna in riveting visual images that linger in the mind. Hence one is a little disappointed by the author’s lines, like, for instance, ninmayilpeelyil oru naraayaal/nanmayil mahitam mama janmam.B. Pushpa Krishnan, a musicologist, has scored the music for the compositions. The CDs that accompany the book have 16 kritis .Prabodha SangeethamDr. V. R. Prabodhachandran NayarThunchan Smaraka SamithiRs.150