http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/In-honour-of-scholarship/article14022713.ece

Of all the contemporary exponents of scriptures, redoubtable Malladi Chandrasekhara Sastry stands tall on several counts. This nonagenarian scholar par excellence has been on the forefront in exposition of Vedic scriptures, particularly puranas and ithihasas well over seven decades.Besides his in-depth knowledge of scriptures and his remarkable ability to interpret it lucid idiom, his unswerving dedication and devotion to Purana pravachanam led him to carve a niche for himself in the hearts of millions of people.It redounds to his credit that there has been a steady spread and patronage for Purana pravachanam nowadays despite the distractions in contemporary life. The merit of his refined expositions lay in the way he interprets the hoary Vedic lore with a touch of contemporary relevance that endears his discourses even to Gen Y. His sense of humour further peps it up.His tryst with Purana pravachanam took place way back in 1945 when he was hardly 19 years old. Having tasted the fruit of appreciation in his maiden rendition, he proceeded with missionary zeal in his chosen pursuit of spreading the noble teachings of ancient wisdom Purana pravachanam.He has mastered diverse Vedic disciplines like Tarkam, Purva mimamsa, Vedanta etc under the tutelage of different gurus. However his grandfather Malladi Ramakrishna Vidwat Chayanulu, who taught him the Puranas left an indelible mark on his mind making him take up the art of Purana pravachanam for occupation that he did it with aplomb.The lasting appeal of scriptures, he says, lies not in the fascinating tales it relates, but in its intrinsic point of wisdom. ‘Any tale in scriptures is just a means for transmission of age old wisdom and we should not miss the wood for the trees’, this is what his mentor in Purana pravachanam had told him decades ago. To take note of that, he has been unfalteringly and resolutely following all through, Chandrasekahra Sastry says.Several awards and titles came his way in his long and eventful life. Visakha Music and Dance Academy felicitated him along with his wife Seetharama Prasanna and conferred the title ‘Aarsha Vidya Bharati’ on him in an impressive function hosted at Kalabharati Visakhapatnam in its tri-monthly schedule of literary programme. On this occasion, he delivered an enlightening discourse on the topic ‘ Bharatamlo Dharma Sukshmalu.’ Dusi Dharmarao ably compered the event.