http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/In-rhythm-with-legends/article13986462.ece

The prestigious Tansen Samaroh, held in Gwalior as a tribute to the legendary Tansen, is perhaps one of the oldest music festivals of India. Organised by the Ustad Alauddin Khan Sangeet Evam Kala Academy (UAKSKA), Bhopal for the Ministry of Tourism and Culture Madhya Pradesh, Tansen Samaroh entered its centenary year with the World Music Conference-2015.A seminar titled ‘Vaadi-Samvaadi’ and ‘Dastavez’, a photo exhibition documenting Tansen Festival for over a century also marked the centenary year. The Tansen Samman for the year 2014 and 2015 were awarded to Pandit Vishwa Mohan Bhatt and Pandit Ajoy Chakravorty respectively on this occasion.Aashish Khan accompanied by his nephew Siraj Ali Khan on Sarod and Somen Nandi on Tabla played a detailed Aalap-Jod-Jhala in raga Bageshri followed with a slow and medium tempo composition in raga Jhinjhoti set to Teentala. Siraj, the gifted son of Dhyanesh Khan, is a leftie and he played the instrument of his grandfather Ustad Allauddin Khan, exactly the way he used to play it. Siraj impressed by his tunefulness and gave a good account of himself throughout the concert despite the overpowering Tabala.Pandit Brij Bhushan Goswami belongs to the Haveli Sangeet tradition of Dhrupad from Brindravan. His thoughtfully conceived Dhrupad recital with compositions of Tansen and his well-cultured voice that comfortably traversed three and a half octaves, was a delight. Preceded with a detailed alaap in raga Bihag that reached the Mandra Shadja, retaining total tunefulness even in his ‘Humphit Gamakas’; Brij Bhushan opened with the Dhrupad “Eri Aali aaj Shubhdin, gaavahu Mangalchaar”, referring to the inaugural day of the Tansen Samaroh. The Dhamaar in raga Malkauns set to Tala Dhamar had the oscillation from Madhya to Taar Shadja in the Mukhda only. He concluded with ‘Ganga-Stuti’, a faster composition in Sool Tala, ably accompanied by Shri Mohan Shyam Sharma on pakhawaj and Kul Bhushan Goswami on sarangi.Pandit Vishwa Mohan Bhatt accompanied on tabla by Himanshu Mahant, played raga Gavati for his main raga, and concluded by his Grammy Dhun. The festival had opened with Government Madhav Music College presenting an invocation to Tansen.It was followed by a Dhrupad composition of Tansen “ShivaShankar Mahadev” in raga Shankara; keeping alive the healthy tradition of each and every session opening with Dhrupad presented by the teachers and students of various music colleges of Gwalior.The next morning session opened with a group Dhrupad presentation in raga Jaunpuri by the Tansen Sangeet Mahavidyalaya. Rajesh Sendh from Varanasi presented a detailed Aalap and Dhrupad in raga Todi before Satyendra Singh Solanki presented a santoor recital in raga Basant-Mukhari.By the time Ruchira Panda took the stage it was late enough for the afternoon raga Shuddha Sarang. She also sang a Chaturang in raga Dhani before concluding with a Bhajan in Maand.This session concluded with the flute recital by Hari Mohan Srivastava from Lucknow who played raga Charukeshi followed by an Avadhi folk-song.Pandit Ajoy Chakravorty came up with an impressive performance that evening with a couple of Khayals and Tarana in raga Jog and thumri Bhairavi.His performance proved him worthy of the Tansen Samman, whereas Gundechas were not up to their usual mark. Chandrika Kamath also gave a vocal recital.The added attraction of this evening was the throbbing World Music by Morope Band from Europe that comprised flute by Jean Christoffe from France, Kancles by Indre Jarglewich from Lithuania and Guitar by Bert Kools from Belgium. Each one of them was too good individually and together they won thunderous applause.