http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/India-waits-as-Sharif-meets-officials-again/article13990261.ece

In a sign that Pakistan PM Nawaz Sharif is keen on progress in the probe on the basis of leads provided by India, he held his second meeting in two days to discuss the Pathankot attack.According to the Prime Minister’s office, the meeting held in Islamabad “reviewed the progress made on the information provided by the Government of India. It was decided to remain in touch with the Government of India in this regard.”No change in position on NSA talksOfficials in New Delhi refused to comment on the Pakistan Prime Minister’s second meeting with senior officials including the Pakistan Army Chief Raheel Sharif . “We await action on the ground,” said a senior official when asked if the meetings were significant.Others conceded that the Pakistani statements of condemnation, and the promise to act on the leads constitute a positive step. Officials also said there was no further decision on the future of India-Pakistan engagement, beginning with foreign secretary level talks next week.On Thursday, the MEA spokesperson had said that the government was awaiting “prompt and decisive” action from Pakistan, linking the action to talks between the Foreign Secretaries due on January 15th. The statement was at odds with the Pakistani position; on Friday in Islamabad, Foreign Affairs Advisor Sartaj Aziz told the National Assembly that the talks would go ahead as scheduled, adding that “all issues including [Jammu and ]Kashmir” would be discussed.Mr. Sharif, on Friday met National Security Adviser Lt. Gen. Nasser Khan Janjua, who has been in contact with NSA Ajit Doval, the Army Chief, Director General of the ISI, Gen. Rizwan Akhtar among others.According to Mr. Sharif’s spokesperson, the officials “reiterated Pakistan’s commitment to cooperate with India to completely eradicate the menace of terrorism.” Pakistani sources said the PM had instructed IB chief Aftab Sultan to expedite the enquiry, and told Gen. Janjua to “continue his contacts” with NSA Doval.Meanwhile, the U.S. has also confirmed that it has been speaking to the Pakistani leadership about the Pathankot attack, adding that it is encouraged by the developments.“I have no knowledge or information specifically about what India might have provided the Pakistanis. But if they did, if there’s some information sharing going on, well, we would find that helpful and productive,” said the spokesman John Kirby, who faced a barrage of questions during the daily briefing on whether the U.S. was holding Pakistan to its previous commitments on fighting terrorism.