http://www.thehindu.com/sport/cricket/India-%E2%80%98A%E2%80%99-locks-horns-with-India-%E2%80%98B%E2%80%99/article14018099.ece

In a season of changes in Indian cricket, the good old Deodhar Trophy — a four-decade-old inter-zonal List ‘A’ event — is all set to be played in its new avatar at the Green Park here through the week.With the build-up for the upcoming World T20 championship getting priority, the Indian Cricket Board (BCCI) may have tried to transform the zonal affair into a more competitive event for the players.The zonal sides have been replaced with Gujarat, the Vijay Hazare Trophy champion, and two other teams India ‘A’ and India ‘B’, which were regular fixtures in the mundane Challenger Trophy.With 9 a.m. starts in the height of winter, the teams will play each other once before the best two clash in the final on Saturday. India ‘A’ and India ‘B’ will lock horns in the opening match on Monday.“It is a combined form of Challenger and Deodhar. With three good teams it is going to be a good competition,” said India ‘B’ captain Unmukt Chand.Railways all-rounder Karn Sharma said, “The best players will get opportunity to showcase their talent. This can result in some tight contests.”India ‘B’ coach Aashish Kapoor was a little cautious though. “The zonal event was monotonous. Now good players from smaller sides can play with others. We have to wait until the end to know how good is the change.”The Ambati Rayudu-led India ‘A’ is studded with batsmen like Murali Vijay, Jalaj Saxena, Mandeep Singh, Kedar Jadhav and Naman Ojha.Good optionsOff-spinners Parvez Rasool and Saxena, leg-spinner Amit Mishra, left-arm spinner Shahbaz Nadeem apart from the pacers Siddharth Kaul, Sreenath Arvind and Krishna Das provide good options. Varun Aaron is not available due to an injury.India ‘B’ looks formidable with its top-order batting comprising Unmukt, Shreyas Iyer, Mayank Agarwal, Suryakumar Yadav, B. Aparajith, Dinesh Karthik and Sheldon Jackson. All-rounders in Karn, Pawan Negi and Stuart Binny give a lot of balance.Effective pacers in Dhawal Kulkarni, Shardul Thakur and Nathu Singh and off-spinner Jayant Yadav strengthen the attack.After bagging the Vijay Hazare Trophy in style, Gujarat — loaded with youngsters and captained by the experienced Parthiv Patel — will look forward to make an impact again in the 50-over format.Parthiv, Rujul Bhatt, Priyank Panchal, Chirag Gandhi and Manpreet Juneja form the core of Gujarat batting. All-rounder Axar Patel is also in fine touch, while R.P. Singh leads the pace department by example.The team, which will miss the services of its star pacer Jasprit Bumrah who is representing India, will try to gain from Rush Kalaria's presence. The tournament also assumes importance ahead of the Indian Premier League season.