http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/business/India-Inc-gives-Asia%E2%80%99s-richest-marathon-a-miss/article14005097.ece

As India heads for another sluggish quarter, its corporate leaders gave the Mumbai Marathon, Asia’s richest marathon, a miss this year.Regulars like Reliance Group chairman Anil Ambani, HDFC chairman Deepak Parekh, Mahindra Group chairman Anand Mahindra, RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan, YM Deosthalee, CMD, L&T Finance Holdings were not seen at the 13th edition of the Mumbai Marathon, which saw 40,000 people participate in various categories.However, some long-distance runners like TCS CEO N Chandrasekharan, IndiaBulls Housing Finance’s VC & MD Gagan Banga, Edelweiss Group chairman Rashesh Shah, GVK Group’s vice chairman Sanjay Reddy and JSW chairman Sajjan Jindal were seen taking part on Sunday morning.Mahindra is learnt to be travelling, while Anil Ambani is in Europe. Deosthalee was unwell (but his team from L&T participated in the event). Edelweiss Group chairman Rashesh Shah finished the 21-km half-marathon in of 1:57 hours, beating his personal best of 2:05 hours by eight minutes as he crossed GVK’s Sanjay Reddy and TCS's Chandrasekharan on the way.Banga completed his ninth full marathon with a personal best of 3:47 hours, beating his previous best of 3:56 hours at the same event. Banga said after the run, “The Mumbai Marathon has always been my favourite marathon as it is held on my home ground, and for how it is always well-organised. This year, however, I felt a little let down with what seemed like lesser attention to detail. Whilst earlier editions have seen a gradual increase in standards with experience, this year saw a blip. Small things like over-crowded starting points, waiting for over a minute after crossing the starting line, lack of adequate water and Enerzal stalls in the first half of the route were a few dampeners. There was nothing to take away the energy and enthusiasm of the runners though, thanks to which I found myself pushing my own limits.”Shah said, “The arrangements were not up to standards. The holding area, the entry to the Sea Link and the finish area were all cramped. Hope we have better arrangements next year as the organisers get used to the new route.”Banga is planning to run in the Tokyo Marathon while Shah is heading to the Rotterdam Marathon in April this year.Aditya Birla Group chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla’s wife Neerja and daughter Ananya were also seen running the marathon along with Bajaj Electricals chairman Shekhar Bajaj.“Running is the best way to spend time with yourself. I am ready for the #standardcharteredmarathon. I encourage max participation,” tweeted Mr Jindal before starting the run.Reddy, who started running a year ago, participated in his first Mumbai Marathon after runs in Hyderabad and Delhi. Reddy, 51, completed the half-marathon in an hour and 56 minutes, taking two minutes more than he took to complete the Delhi Marathon two months ago. “I am looking to run at least five marathons this year including an international one. I am very tall (6 ft 5 in), and I was scared that I may have problems with my knees, so I started running last year,” Reddy said.Harsh Goenka, chairman, RPG Enterprises said, "We encourage employees to take care of their health and marathons have motivated a quite a few to push the limits of fitness even more. This year we had 305 participants from RPG group companies as against 274 last year."About 257 corporate challenge teams from 156 companies participated in the Mumbai Marathon to vie for the $377,000 total prize money.Running is the best way to spend time with yourself. I encourage max participationSajjan JindalChairman, JSWGVK chief Sanjay Reddy, a yearinto running, tookpart in his first Mumbai Marathon