http://www.thehindu.com/sport/cricket/India-implodes-after-Dhawan-Kohli-show/article14010418.ece

India will wonder how this one got away. Having for the longest time looked like chasing down a skyscraper of a total at the Manuka Oval, the visiting side imploded in spectacular fashion to sink to a 25-run defeat to Australia here on Wednesday.Set a target of 349 for victory in the fourth ODI, India, batting second for the first time this series, had stormed along to 221 for one. Shikhar Dhawan, who scored his previous ODI century in March last year, had made 126, while Kohli, in typically belligerent fashion, had completed his 25th one-day hundred.The pair had added 212 runs in 29.3 overs for the second wicket.Chaotic hourAll that good work, though, was undone in one chaotic hour. Dhawan fell in the 38th over to John Hastings and was followed three balls later by M.S. Dhoni, caught behind. Virat Kohli perished seven balls afterwards — at the hands of Kane Richardson — and with him a big portion of India’s hopes.It was critical in the context of the game that Ajinkya Rahane was injured and could only bat at seven.While fielding in the covers earlier, Rahane had split a webbing in his right hand that required four stitches and a local anaesthetic, and thus could not bat until sensation had been regained.He spent three balls at the crease and when he edged Richardson into the slips, the outcome was obvious.Rishi Dhawan and Gurkeerat Mann fell playing wild shots, while Ravindra Jadeja displayed a shocking lack of awareness batting with the tail. When the dust had settled, India had lost nine for 46 in 12 overs, Richardson finishing with five for 68.Australia, earlier helped by a hundred from Aaron Finch and a 93 by David Warner, took a 4-0 lead in the VB Series. The fifth ODI will be played in Sydney on Saturday.High-octane startThe tragedy of it all though was that India had begun resoundingly well, Rohit Sharma scoring a 25-ball-41 and giving his side the sort of high-octane start it had missed.His exit united Dhawan and Kohli, and as long as the two were at the crease, it seemed India would sail home without any concerns.Dhawan batted with greater boldness and intent than he had shown at the MCG. Early in his innings, he stepped down the pitch to John Hastings, carving him over point with both feet off the ground.Dhawan struck 14 fours and two sixes in all, breaking into a relieved smile when he reached three figures.Kohli, meanwhile, began as if he wanted to get home in a hurry, treating James Faulkner — the two are not the best of friends — with gleeful contempt. He began with two fours in Faulkner’s opening over, before two more followed in the next — both thrashed with what resembled rage through the covers.Kohli faced 16 balls from the bowler in all, and plundered 29 runs off them. He was eventually dismissed for 106 (92b), caught at mid-off off an innocuous delivery.He stood there in anguished disbelief for a few seconds afterwards; perhaps he knew.Earlier, as a hot morning gave way to a cloudy afternoon, Australia made rapid progress after electing to bat first. Warner did not look like he had been away at all, giving Bhuvneshwar Kumar and Umesh Yadav an early beating.It did not help that he was let off on 39, Yadav spilling a catch at short fine-leg. India was made to pay as the left-hander carried on to make 93, adding 187 runs for the first wicket in the company of Finch.Australia had decided before the start of the play that Mitchell Marsh would bat at one drop, so that he may spend time at the crease.As he struggled, ambling to two off the first 16 balls, Jadeja tied one end down, ensuring Australia scored no more than 35 runs between the end of the 28th and the 35th overs.India was unprepared, though, for what would follow. Steve Smith made a delightful, effortless 51 (29b) before Glenn Maxwell launched a blistering late assault on Ishant Sharma.Eighteen came off Ishant’s 50th over and 111 off the last 10 overs as Australia finished with the highest total of the series.Nobody could have predicted how it would finish.Umpire replacedThe English umpire Richard Kettleborough had to be replaced during the match after suffering an injury. Kettleborough was struck on the shin by a straight drive from Aaron Finch, via a deflection off bowler Ishant Sharma’s fingertips.He was replaced by the TV umpire Paul Wilson. Kettleborough received treatment for a swelling and a numb foot and did not return for the rest of the day.Meanwhile, umpire John Ward, hospitalised after being hit on his head during an assignment in India, wore a helmet.