http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/India-marches-forward-on-its-67th-Republic-Day/article14022643.ece

The nation celebrated its 67th Republic Day on Tuesday with a multi-hued parade that dazzled the majestic Rajpath. The customary event which had French President Francois Hollande as the chief guest took the cheering crowd by surprise.For the thousands of people who thronged either sides of Rajpath braving the winter chill, the celebrations this year was a special one as they witnessed a march by the French Army soldiers who created history by becoming the first foreign military contingent to participate in India’s Republic Day parade. The military veterans also sprung a surprise as they took out a tableau displaying the role of ex-servicemen in nation building. The contingent that received a thunderous applause was that of the Army dog squad which made a comeback after 26 years. With the duration of the parade being curtailed from more than two hours to 90 minutes this year, visitors were left wanting for more. The biggest takeaway for the audience was the end of the spectacular show when Prime Minister Narendra Modi stepped out to interact with the people.The parade began with President Pranab Mukherjee unfurling the tricolour to the National Anthem after which the customary 21-gun salute was given. Mr. Hollande was seated between Mr. Mukherjee and Prime Minister Narendra Modi who wore a marigold coloured ‘safa’ (turban). Alongside Hollande, the fifth French President to attend the celebrations, the parade was attended by Vice-President Hamid Ansari, former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, Congress president Sonia Gandhi, BJP president Amit Shah and the country’s top political and military brass, besides the diplomatic community.Minutes before the parade began, Prime Minister Modi, Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar and the three service chiefs laid wreaths at ‘Amar Jawan Jyoti’, the war memorial at the India Gate where an eternal flame burns in memory of those who laid down their lives defending the frontiers of the nation. Next, President Mukherjee presented the Ashok Chakra (posthumous), highest peacetime gallantry award, to Lance Naik Mohan Nath Goswami of 9 Para (Special Force) for his bravery in fighting with terrorists on the intervening night of September 2/3 last year in Haphruda forest at Kupwara district of Jammu and Kashmir. The award was received by his wife Bhavna Goswami.The synchronised military and police contingents led by General Officer Commanding (Delhi), Lt General Rajan Ravindran marched proudly to the lilting tunes of the bands through Rajpath where Mr. Mukherjee, the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, took the salute.The march-past by various regiments like the horse-mounted 61st Cavalry, Parachute regiment, Corps of Signals, Rajput regiment, Assam regiment, Garhwal Rifles, 11 Gorkha rifles along with that by the paramilitary forces and other auxiliary civil forces including Border Security Force, Assam Rifles, Indian Coast Guard, an all-women contingent of Central Reserve Police Force, Railway Protection Force, Delhi Police, National Cadet Corps and National Service Scheme was an enthralling experience for the crowd. The BSF camel contingent with their caparisoned ungulates kept spectators glued to their seats.The much awaited military contingent showcased India’s missile firing capability with the T-90 ‘Bhishma’ tank, Infantry Combat Vehicle BMP II (Sarath), Mobile Autonomous Launcher of the BrahMos Missile System, Akash Weapon System and Smerch Launcher Vehicles. The Indian Air Force tableau had the theme ‘Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Relief Operations’, which depicted the IAF’s rescue and relief operations during floods in Uttarakhand and Jammu and Kashmir, besides its role in evacuating people in Nepal when that country was hit by a devastating earthquake in April last year. This time, the Indian Navy’s tableau had the theme ‘Empowering India through Maritime security and Indigenisation.’ The tableau displayed flight deck operations on the new aircraft carrier ‘Vikrant’ under construction at the Kochi Shipyard Ltd and the indigenously constructed submarine ‘Kalvari’ having a ‘Made in India’ tag on them.Seventeen tableaux proudly presented the vivid cultures of states like Assam, West Bengal, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Jammu and Kashmir, Tamil Nadu and many more. Apart from these, there were six tableaux from central ministries and departments which mostly highlighted the flagship programmes launched by the Modi government.