http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Infrastructure-at-Cheluvamba-Hospital-to-be-improved/article14013311.ece

After making headlines over a series of maternal deaths in November/December last, the State-run Cheluvamba Hospital, one of the oldest hospitals in the State for women and children, is in expansion mode.With the inquiry report pointing to lack of certain facilities, the hospital administration has taken up the challenge and got into the mode of adding up most modern equipment and strengthening its infrastructure.A sum of Rs. 7 crore had been sanctioned to the hospital for purchasing medical devices such ventilators, infusion pumps, incubators and so on for strengthening its intensive care unit (ICU), which was recommended for an overhaul with new devices.“Already, some indigenously-manufactured machines such as X-ray units had been procured and orders had been placed from a European manufacturer for machines for ultrasound scanning. It may take a month’s time to get the instruments for the hospital,” said MMCRI Dean and Director B. Krishnamurthy. Speaking to The Hindu , Dr. Krishnamurthy said the equipment would be installed in the coming weeks, which would better the healthcare services in the hospital.Also, a sum of Rs. 2 crore has been sanctioned under the Chief Minister’s Mysuru City Development funds and Rs. 2 crore from the Department of Medical Education for expanding the Labour Ward. The Public Works Department will take up the work and promised to complete it in 10 months, he informed.Once these facilities were added, the number of beds at the labour ward will increase by 30 from 10 with a separate ICU of 10 beds for surgical cases, besides 20 beds for neonatal ICU and two operation theatres, Dr. Krishnamurthy said.“Despite facing scarcity of space, we have taken up the job knowing the limitations. By the end of this year, the expansion will be done, providing all facilities that better the services and improve the quality of treatment,” said Dr. Krishnamurthy.