http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Info-packed-mobile-app-for-fete/article13995162.ece

The State school arts festival has embraced technology like never before. The 56th edition of the festival is set to get its own mobile application ‘Sammohanam.’The app, launched by the IT@School project, will be released by Director of Public Instruction M.S. Jaya on Friday. Besides hosting all information related to the fete, the app will be the first to provide authoritative results of various events, IT@School executive director K.P. Noufal said.The points scored by a school, a district’s tally, results of individual items, all will be available on the application. To make the festival ‘smart,’ IT@School is providing live streaming on its website and the mobile app of the events at the venues.Optical fibre connectivity is being established between venues. A software that was partly used in the school fete last year will be made fully operational at the centralised data centre at the Putharikandam grounds, the main festival venue. Entry of marks from the venues directly into the software will help bring down the time taken to announce the results from hours to minutes, Mr. Noufal said. The marks will be uploaded in real time on the festival website and app.Besides live streaming, delayed telecast will be also be facilitated on big television screens near greenrooms so that participants can view their performance after stepping down from the stage, he said.IT@School is also making available video-on-demand facility. One can select the venue and enter the event code to watch the video on the website or mobile app. Local Wi-Fi will also be available at the main venues.Large screensAt Putharikandam grounds, 14 large screens will be set up to enable people to watch the events under way at the other venues. IT@School has made arrangements for sending 1 lakh SMSs in 10 seconds. Students taking part in multiple events need not worry where their events will be held or at what time. All participants will get SMS alerts 30 minutes before the start of their event with details such as their name, event venue, date and time.The first 25,000 people who register with the website can get to know the results of any number of events by entering their mobile phone number. Long-code SMS facility has also been arranged. For instance, if one sends ITSV1, the status of programmes at venue can be known. As much as 100 sq ft of video wall will be set up at all the venues. The fete will also get a digital scoreboard, Mr. Noufal said.