http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Innovative-ideas-take-shape-at-model-making-contest-in-Hubballi/article13996135.ece

At a time when awareness campaigns about using helmets have made little impact, how about a motorcycle that does not start unless you wear a helmet? How much useful will it be if a flood alert could be sounded well in advance and if a multipurpose vehicle is available to take up relief works during floods?All these and many more innovative ideas have taken the shape of science models at the ongoing national-level science model making contest and exhibition titled ‘Jignyasa-2016’ here.More than 170 models including 30 from 13 different States are on display at the event being held at Nehru Stadium. It is drawing huge crowds since the inauguration on Monday. Those on display are based on the 2,800 synopses sent by students from across the country and chosen by Agastya International Foundation, the organiser of the event.The multipurpose vehicle for floods developed by Praveen Singh Rathod of Government Senior Secondary School, Hurda, Bhilwada District, Rajasthan, is capable of undertaking many tasks at a time. With hydraulic legs and a rotating platform, the vehicle could also be used to set up an emergency medical centre, Mr. Praveen said.Wirless helmetSthuthi B. from Mala village in Karkala has developed a ‘wireless helmet system’ for two-wheelers. The radio wave controlled system will not allow the vehicle to start unless the rider wears a helmet and removes the side-stand. Aryan Raj, a Class 6 student from Gyanlok Public School, Siwan, Bihar, has developed a flood alert system, using which one could not get flood alert but also informed about the intensity of the floods, while Kamal Jangara from Gorawar, Haryana, has developed a prototype using which power could be generated using effluents from the chimney.The model developed by T.P. Koushik of Mudakatti, Kundapur, helps generate electricity using thermo electric plate, while that of Veena Kumbar and Ashwini Anegol from Chimmada in Bagalkot district helps rescue children stuck in open borewells.The contest and exhibition will conclude on Wednesday evening.