http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Innovators-air-grievances-to-Chandy/article14010037.ece

The State Innovation Meet provided an opportunity for innovators to air the problems in securing patents, designing and testing prototypes, developing working models, and commercialising their inventions.The meeting was organised by the Kerala State Innovation Council and Kerala State Council for Science, Technology and Environment (KSCSTE) here on Tuesday.Speaking on the occasion, Chief Minister Oommen Chandy assured the innovators that their problems would be looked into.InterventionHis intervention ensured that an innovator, Vinay Ram, who had designed a flexible road divider to avoid accidents, was given an opportunity to field test his invention.Mr. Ram earlier described how his plea to government officials to test his design had been turned down repeatedly. On Mr. Chandy’s directives, NATPAC director B.G. Sreedevi arrived at the venue and held discussions with Mr. Ram on the design.Joint Director, KSCSTE, Ajit Prabhu later said it had been tentatively decided to test the design on a 200m stretch on the campus of Natpac at Aakulam.Mr. Chandy stressed the need to create opportunities for young innovators and entrepreneurs to flourish in Kerala. He said the State would face difficulties if it did not change with the times. He urged the council to help innovators in securing patents and removing the hurdles in commercialising their inventions.In his presidential address, Minister for Planning K.C. Joseph said student start-ups held the key to an innovation ecosystem. Innovation Council chairman L. Radhakrishnan said business incubation centres would be set up in all universities in Kerala. He said moves were on to link innovators to research institutions and funding agencies.Industries Principal Secretary P.H. Kurian said it was unfortunate that discussions on solutions to everyday problems had taken a backseat to ideological debate in Kerala. He said ideological rigidity had prevented agricultural scientists in Kerala from developing mechanised equipment appropriate for the State.Planning Board member G. Vijayaraghavan; Executive Vice President, KSCSTE, Suresh Das; Innovation Council member, Thomas Joseph; Professor, University of Kerala, Achuthsankar S. Nair; and Joint Director, KSCSTE Ajith Prabhu were among those who interacted with innovators on patenting procedures, technology upgradation and commercialisation of inventions.