http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Insecurity-grips-red-sanders-grower-in-Kurnool/article13976765.ece

A 78-year-old farmer, Shankar Reddy of Gopavaram village of Mahanandi mandal of Kurnool district, is the proud owner of three giant red sanders trees at his sprawling 50-acre estate, close to Nallamala forests. The trees have completed silver jubilee (25 years) this year.Shankar Reddy, a B.A. (Hons) and a close follower of Shetkhari Sanghatan leader Sharad Joshi, is a worried man with spurt in red sanders smuggling since a decade.Mr Reddy’s spouse, Sumitramma (68), a renowned gynaecologist in Nandyal, is virtually in love with the trees in their farm, visiting them at least twice in a week.The couple purchased three red sanders plants from a nursery at Nandyal in 1990. For a decade, the plants were looked after like their children, standing by them in times of pest and disease.Later, there was no looking back.One of three now stands 50-ft tall, and the remaining two a few feet less.The trees could also register a girth of 5 feet, which parameter is missing deep inside the Seshachalam or Nallamala hills, thanks to the couple’s care with quality fertilizers and protection methods.His grandchildren take pride in bringing their friends to their farm, showing them the prized trees.“Except for our trees, there is no red sanders tree anywhere in private lands in Nandyala area. Ours are the best in the whole of Andhra Pradesh,” Mr. Reddy states.With red sanders smuggling ruling the roost since a decade, Mr. Reddy deployed watchmen to look after his trees, along with teak and other plantations.“We have erected solar fencing and lighting system in the farm as an additional protection to our trees,” he said.“Fearing smugglers in the recent years, we have stopped talking about our trees, though our lands are well protected. Except for our old acquaintances, others do not know about red sanders in our area,” Dr. Sumitramma said, adding “Whenever we go out of station on tours, we are constantly gripped with a feeling of unease, always thinking about our trees.”The couple deplored that though they had sought forest officials’ guidance regarding red sanders plantations, there was no response from them.“During the last couple of years, we read in newspapers that the Forest Department wanted to encourage private red sanders plantations, but in reality no officer is ready to speak to us,” they said.The duo visited the Wildlife Circle Office in Tirupati on November 26 to approach Chief Conservator of Forests P.V. Chalapati Rao.“Though we had informed him about our plan before hand, we were not given an opportunity to meet the official,” Mr. Reddy said.The couple is confident that if farmers are made partners in raising private red sanders plantations and other commercial timber trees, there will be a revolution in social forestry concept, in addition to effectively controlling deforestation and red sanders smuggling.