http://www.thehindu.com/features/homes-and-gardens/Insure-and-be-secure/article14014014.ece

Having an adequate insurance cover for your home loan and the property itself is recommended nowadays to protect yourself from unforeseen events.If a person takes a home loan at the age of 30, the repayment tenure would usually be 20 years and this is not a short term by any standard. If he/she dies during this repayment period, the lender (bank/HFI) would seek the loan to be repaid by any of the surviving family member/s. In case of financial incapability to repay the balance amount, the property could be repossessed since it is hypothecated in favour of the lender.To avoid such consequences it would be ideal to insure the entire loan. Usually the bank/HFI would facilitate this with the assistance of a general insurance company. It would be a one-time premium payment and covers risk of non-repayment due to the death of the borrower during the repayment tenure. One can also separately buy an insurance and cover the risk.In case of sudden demise of the borrower the insurance company would pay the pending loan amount with interest to the lender and the rest would be paid to the legal successor.Let’s assume the total loan amount (interest & principal) is Rs.75 lakh for 20 years, and is adequately insured. After 10 years the borrower dies. Assuming at that time that the due is Rs.35 lakh, the insurance company would pay this amount to the home loan company.This way the house is secure and the loan too would be cleared.High premiumIf the borrower feels that the premium is too high (the one-time premium could be as high as Rs.1 lakh), he/she could request the lender to add this amount to the loan being taken and pay that too as part of the EMI. Such facilities should be utilised without a second thought.Let’s turn to insuring the property. You can buy an insurance for the brick and mortar building, for protection against any damages such as a neighbouring tree falling on the compound wall or on the structure itself or a careless truck driver damaging your compound wall. Along with the structure, objects inside the house too can be insured, such as television set, refrigerator etc. against theft, robbery, and electric short-circuits. These insurances are not expensive.Term assuranceApart from insuring the home loan, insuring oneself by buying adequate term assurance (a type of insurance which covers only the death of the insured person) too is essential.Upon the sudden demise of the breadwinner, the surviving family members could be put to financial hardship. To keep the family away from such hardships it would be ideal to buy such an insurance which again may not be expensive if purchased when young.At times, when one has not been medically insured, the regular home loan EMI payments too could be stopped temporarily, which is a big NO for any borrower.Think before you signAvoid signing as a guarantor for any loans. Or think hard and deep before you sign as one. The obligations of the guarantor are equal to that of a borrower and if the borrower fails to repay the loan, the guarantor would have to step in.On an annual basis your outflow for these insurances may be a few thousand rupees which you should treat as an investment and not as an expenditure.