http://www.thehindu.com/features/downtown/Institutes-throw-open-their-gates-for-morning-walkers/article14015934.ece

MCC campusHarrington RoadTime: 5 a.m. to 7.30 a.m.and 5.30 p.m. to 7.30 p.m.Over 100 people, on an average, visit the campus of the Madras Christian College Higher Secondary School in Chetpet for morning or evening walks. The greenery, wide walkways in the shape of a circle and a square and calmness on the campus are a few reasons why many prefer to walk here even if there is a fee to be paid. The yearly subscription to walk on the campus is Rs. 500 for individuals and Rs. 700 for couples. “We have nearly 400 trees on the campus and walking can be very rejuvenating,” says G.J. Manohar, headmaster of the school.The walkers here formed the Harrington Road Walkers’ Club, which is nearly 15 years old. The Club has an elected president, secretary and a team of committee members that organises events for the 150 registered walkers. It also addresses concerns raised by walkers to the school management.“We have a breakfast meeting with all the walkers every six months and the head of the school is invited,” says C.N. Murthy, secretary of Harrington Road Walkers’ Club. The Club also has rules for those walking on the campus. “We expect people to dress appropriately,” says Murthy, a resident of Kilpauk. Application forms for new walkers are available at the security’s office.***Don Bosco SchoolEgmoreTime: Before 7.30 a.m.and after 5 p.m.Many morning walkers find walking here refreshing. “It also gives them a sense of happiness,” says Father John Alexander, rector of Don Bosco School, who does five to six laps on the walkway every day. The management does not charge any fee from the walkers. The only condition is walkers have to leave the premises by 7.30 a.m., when the students’ start coming in. In the evening, after 4.30 p.m., residents can use the premises for walking.Around 15 to 20 people walk regularly; the numbers increase during summer. During weekends, the management also allow groups to play basketball and other sports on the grounds.***Pachaiyappa’s CollegeTime: 5.30 a.m. to 7 a.m.Walking inside this 38-acre campus one gets a sense of trees keeping strides with him/her. The huge campus completely cuts off the noise and blocks the dust from Poonamalee High Road, say walkers. Apart from the two grounds, walkers can use the college premises for exercises.**Mar Gregorios CollegeMogappair WestTime: 6 a.m. to 7.30 a.m.Walkers here say a stroll around the college campus pumps up their energy. Preethesh Babu, a regular walker, vouches for that. “With many sports activities being organised here, one feels motivated and happy walking here. Sometimes, the college coach offers fitness tips,” he says.The seven-acre campus offers activities such as tennis coaching and athletics in the morning hours. The management charges Rs. 100 per month from every walker