http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Interpretation-of-a-myth/article14005221.ece

Three years ago dancer, choreographer and scenographer Felix Mathias Ott put in a sterling performance Odyssey Complex, based on the classic myth, as part of the Attakkalari Biennale.He was back in Bengaluru for a one month residency on invitation by Sandbox Collective, as part of the BangaloREsidency, supported by Max Mueller Bhavan, Goethe-Institut. During this time, he met artistes from Bengaluru and Pondicherry, watched all night performances of Theyyam and Therukoothu at Adishakti and shows at Nrityagram, and interacted with dancers there. He also had discussions on the concept of Indian Mythology and how it is similar or different to Greek and Roman mythology.While he immersed himself in the experiences he encountered, says Nimi Ravindran of Sandbox Collective, which included riding a motorbike on the dirt roads, honking incessantly, and eating sambhar-rice on the pavement.“He’s pretty much done it all,” says Nimi, Felix spoke to people to gain a deeper understanding of Indian mythology. “I let people tell me before I start reading. I prefer to get to know mythological stories the oral way.”Felix worked with three artistes here for two days and presented a glimpse into his idea of Indian myths, to a select group of 20 at Max Mueller Bhavan. He doesn’t believe in categorising his artistic expression into any particular genre.“I am a multi-media artiste. I like to create picturesque, surrealistic theatre.”Speaking of what attracted him to Odyssey, Felix says: “There were a number of reasons. One, I have a personal connection with it. The second is for political reasons. I wanted to include storytelling, because it is important to my artistic language. Contemporary dance doesn’t tell stories. But I don’t want to do a retelling. I invent the myth in a contemporary form. Odyssey has been well received because it’s a universal myth. To create it, I spent two weeks alone. Then it took three steps: I first made a presentation. Then I did another presentation after three weeks of rehearsals and then another after four weeks of rehearsals.”Felix Ott will collaborate with Sandbox Collective for a performance in 2017.