http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/Interview-turns-candidate-friendly/article14006829.ece

Interview is no more intimidation or interrogation. The Telangana State Public Service Commission (TSPSC) has introduced some radical changes in the interview part of the recruitment process to drive away any scope for bias, and at the same time, analysing the candidates’ personality, over just intelligence.“Candidates have already proved their capabilities and core knowledge obtaining their degree and also the written examination conducted by the Commission. So what we now want is to analyse their personality and consciousness towards the society,” a senior official of TSPSC explained.The new method was introduced in the interviews conducted for the first recruitment in Telangana – Assistant Executive Engineer (Mechanical) posts where 16 candidates were selected two days ago.In the refreshing change, a personality assessor was involved in the interview board and the role was to study the candidate from all aspects as the board members conduct the interview. Questions from members also revolved around the personality than the subject.Another change was to judge the candidate through grades than marks by the subject experts so that Commission members cannot allocate marks at their whims and fancies.“The members can only give marks in a band of five marks or 10 marks as the case may be. It means there is no indiscriminate award of marks to the candidates they want to favour,” said Ghanta Chakrapani, Chairman of TSPSC, while agreeing that in the combined State there were allegations of favours by awarding marks indiscriminately.He said the board members would not even know the marks obtained in the written examination by candidates, and even their region and caste were hid to drive away any sort of bias that may arise. “This was to ensure that only genuine and meritorious candidates were selected,” said Prof. Chakrapani.The interview board members including the subject experts were also given training on conducting the interview in the changed scenario. “The training included putting the candidates at ease, understanding them from various parameters and their behaviour before finally judging them,” said Prof. Chakrapani revealing that it is the first of its effort in any PSC in the country.So candidates who will attend the TSPSC interviews in future can rest assured that only merit will be the criterion and not other factors, given the secrecy maintained in the marks and the identity. Moreover, human intervention is curtailed in allocation of the posts as candidates can give their choice of posts online itself.The final allotment would be done by the software taking into account the rank, caste, zone etc.