http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Irate-mob-torches-sarpanch%E2%80%99s-house/article13990251.ece

A mob went berserk for about four hours at Ibrahimpur village in Siddipet mandal of Medak district on Friday attacking the house of local sarpanch, Lakshmi and partially burning it, holding her sons responsible for the death of a person.Fire spread to two more houses as it took more than half-an-hour for the police to enter the village and bring the situation under control. The agitating mob even prevented the fire tender to douse fire.Only after sufficient police force reached the village from within the district and adjoining Karimnagar, was the fire put down.As a precaution to prevent escalation of tension, the police invoked prohibitory orders in the village and posted a picket.Inspector General of Police G. Naveen Chand, Superintendents of Police B. Sumathi (Medak) and D. Jovel Davis (Karimnagar) rushed to the village and brought the situation under control after lathi-charge and taking some persons into custody.Trouble broke out after a trader in beedi leaves, Srihari (35) of Terlumaddi village in Mustabad mandal of Karimnagar district, came to Ibrahimpur on Thursday on a routine visit to contact women who were engaged in rolling beedis.His two-wheeler reportedly hit Lakshmi while she was crossing a road injuring her in the process.Enraged over this, Lakshmi’s sons beat up Srihari in the presence of others. He was severely injured and shifted to a hospital near Sircilla.He died at his house on Friday morning.Though it was also stated that he committed suicide, the same was not confirmed.Alleging that Lakshmi and her sons were responsible for the death of Srihari, hundreds of his relatives brought the body to Ibrahimpur and kept it before the house of Lakshmi. They also attacked Lakshmi and set her house afire.The fire spread to two adjacent houses. Lakshmi’s house collapsed under the impact of a cylinder blast. Another cylinder was cooled down in water.The crowd even tried to burn Lakshmi alive by pouring kerosene but the situation was controlled by Siddipet (Rural) Sub-Inspector Rajendra Prasad with the little force available.“We can know the reason for the death of Srihari only after post-mortem,” said Ms. Sumathi.