http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Irinjalakuda-lifts-school-arts-festival-trophy/article13989702.ece

In a neck-and-neck fight, Irinjalakuda sub-district emerged champions at the Thrissur Revenue District School Arts Festival. Thrissur East and Thrissur West sub-districts won the second and third prizes respectively. Irinjalakuda scored 807 points (138 points in upper primary, 309 in high school and 360 in higher secondary school sections) to win the trophy. Thrissur East and Thrissur West sub-districts secured a total of 797 and 778 points, respectively.Government Chief Whip Thomas Unniyadan inaugurated the valedictory function. Mayor Ajitha Jayarajan presided over the function.A total of 7,500 students participated in the four-day festival held at 15 venues.There were criticisms over the poor organisation of the youth festival. The delay in starting the competitions had invited criticism throughout the festival. The delay of the inaugural function had created much din as the MLAs walked out of the venue. Complaints including poor lighting, technical errors of the CD players at the dance venues and lack of seats for audience were common.Following are the winners of a few events (in the order first, second and third position):UP sectionClassical music: V. Aadithya Dev, St. Thomas UPS Koonamoochy; Gopika P. Jyothiraj, GGHSS Kodungallur; Athira Vinayan, St. Joseph’s EMHSS Aloor.HS sectionKathakali (girls): Parvathy Namboothiri, St. Antony’s GHSS Thanissery; Mithravinda Vasudevan, SNDPHSS Palissery; K.B. Devananda, HFCGHS Thrissur and Aparna Jairam V. Nair, LFCGHSS Mammiyur.Light Music (boys): C.B. Sreerag, St. Joseph’s HSS Pavaratty; M.R. Sreehari, Nirmala HS Kundukad; Arun Arvind, Matha HS MannampettaHSS sectionLight Music (boys): V.J. Mohamed Jasim Jamal, HSS Panangad; Ashvin Varghese, LBSMHSS Avittathur; Amalraj, JPEHS KoorkancheryMappilappattu (boys): E.S. Ajmal, ICAEHSS Vadakkekad; V.M. Mohammed Shukoor, MASMVHSS Venmanad; V.J. Mohamed Jasim Jamal, HSS Panangad.