http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Irrigation-projects-held-up-as-evacuees-seek-fair-deal/article14004946.ece

Special focus of the government is need of the hour for the early completion of both Vamsadhara Phase-2 and Thotapalli projects in Srikakulam district. The works are likely to move fast if the government sanctions more funds in the ensuing budget for the year 2016-17.At present, the project works of the Vamsadhara phase-2 were hampered with the frequent agitations of evacuees. They have been taking up many protests in Hiramandalam, seeking fair compensation. According to them, the government is expected to pay compensation as per the new Land Acquisition Act-2014 for the displaced but they were being offered meagre payments for their valuable land.A few months ago, one displaced person V. Simhachalam tried to commit suicide in front of the Hiramandalam Tehsildhar’s office, alleging that he was denied fair compensation for the last six years. Majority of the evacuees found fault with revenue officials for fixing little amount for their properties.“The government has failed to understand the grievances of people. That is why the Left parties are taking up the issue in remote areas,” said Bhaviri Krishnamurthy, CPI (M) leader.It may be recalled that the Zilla Parishad meeting held in July, Collector P. Lakshmi Narasimham highlighted the large scale irregularities, saying that a few officials connived with locals to inflate values of properties. Though the compensation was fixed at Rs.10,000 per property, around Rs. 3 lakh was given to people with false calculations. The locals alleged that the revenue officials did not make proper assessment of the trees, houses and other properties during the survey. The government had released Rs.47.33 crore towards the R&R package. As many as 3,965 families were promised new houses for which Rs. 19 crore were sanctioned. However, the measures have failed to appease the evacuees.The locals’ agitations would lead to further delay in execution of the Vamsadhara phase-2 which is expected to irrigation around 2 lakh acres of land apart from providing drinking water facility to many villages.Protest brewingEvacuees seek compensation as per the new Land Acquisition Act-2014Denied compensation, an evacuee tried to end life at Hiramandalam Tehsildhar’s office a few months agoIn July ZP meeting,Collector highlighted large scale irregularities inevaluation of properties