http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/Ishq-Par-Zor-Nahin-1970/article13986453.ece

By the early ’70s, Sadhana was losing ground both as an actor and a star. New performers, including Sharmila Tagore, Mumtaz and Hema Malini, were ruling the roost. “Ishq Par Zor Nahin” was one film in which Sadhana looked ravishing though the thyroid problem she was suffering from affected her. Her performance was also commendable. Sadhana’s famous fringe gave way to stylized hairdo but her million dollar smile remained intact.Ram Kumar (Dharmendra) is a childhood friend of Amar (Biswajit). Ram approaches Amar desperately in need of employment. Understanding the need of Ram, Amar introduces his friend to his industrialist father (Abhi Bhattacharya). Ram hails from a lower middle class family staying with his mother (Leela Mishra), Bengali Babu (Jagdeep) and his mother (Kamini Kaushal). Amar is rich, well to do but lacks affection of his father and society lady mother (Nadira). He considers Ram’s mother as his own.Happy times come as Ram is employed full time to work as a subordinate to Amar. They work together and spend a lot of time discussing various topics. The story takes an interesting twist when Amar requests Ram to pen a love poem for the Goa based belle he has started liking. Ram obliges and writes the poem O Mehbooba. It reaches Sushma (Sadhana) and reading it she falls in love with the poet. She is too keen to see him in person.Hearing Ram sing the same poem as a song, Sushma cannot hold her emotions. Ram and Sushma fall in love secretly. Unknowingly Amar who also loves Sushma announces his engagement with her. Amar knows Ram has a sweet heart but Amar has never seen her. Ram also understands Amar has a fiancé who is unknown to Ram. At the engagement ceremony both are astonished seeing Sushma their common beloved. Ram and Sushma do not disclose their affair. So Amar remains unaware of the romantic relation.The saga gets predictable with suspicion in Amar’s mind, emotional conflicts, temporary hatred and ultimately a sacrifice by Amar. Ram and Sushma are united after a lot of dramatic situations.Written and directed by eminent writer, director Ramesh Saigal, “Ishq Par Zor Nahin” lacks the finesse found in his earlier ventures “Garm Coat”, “Railway Platform” and “Phir Subah Hogi”. A competent assistant of Chetan Anand, Ramesh Saigal appears confused and not at ease directing a mainstream film. Kishan Rege’s cinematography is brilliant specially photographing Sadhana in the dream sequences. Editing by Baburao Barodkar is not crisp.Dharmendra gives a sincere, honest and competent performance. Sadhana is fluid, seeping with emotions. Her voice conveys an innocence which latter actresses lacked. Biswajit steals the show with a brilliant performance which is a blend of humanity, negativity and romance. Kamini Kaushal is effortless. Abhi Bhattacharya, Nadira and Jagdeep are average.“Ishq Par Zor Nahin” boasts excellent lyrics by Anand Bakshi and music by S.D. Burman. Lata Mangeshkar, Asha Bhonsle and Mohammed Rafi are at their best. The songs “O Mehbooba Kaise Teri Tasveer”, “Yeh Dil Diwana Hai”, “O Mere Bairagi Bhanwra” and “Tum Mujh Se Door” are truly lilting. If properly scripted and directed, “Isqh Par Zor Nahin” would have been at par with “Andaz”, “Gumrah”, “Dil Ek Mandir” and “Sangam” as a triangular love story.Genre: Romantic dramaDirector: Ramesh SaigalCast: Dharmendra, Sadhana, Biswajeet, Jagdeep, Kamini Kaushal, Abhi Bhattacharya, Nadira, Leela Mishra, Meena TWritten by: Ramesh SaigalLyrics: Anand BakshiMusic: S. D. BurmanBox office status: Hit