http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Issue-of-railway-overbridge-not-sanctioned-for-Hassan-highlighted/article13981836.ece

Demand for the construction of a railway overbridge on Hassan-Holenarasipur Road, near the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation bus-stand was highlighted at an interactive session that the Bharatiya Janata Party held here with industrialists and social activists on Sunday.Union Minister for Science and Technology Harsha Vardhan and Pratap Simha, Mysore MP, participated in the programme that had been organised at a star hotel here.Participants raised the issue of flyover by stating that the demand had been submitted to the Union government several months ago. The Railway Ministry had sanctioned railway overbridges for Halekote and Holenarsipur, but not Hassan. Y.S. Veerabhadrappa of the Janapara Vedike and R.P. Venkateshamurthy, a social activist, raised this issue at the interactive session.Mr. Simha, in his response to the issue, said that he had discussed it with the Railway Minister. “As per the norms followed by the ministry, the Union government will bear the cost of railway overbridges across the tracks through which more than three lakh vehicles pass every day. In the case of vehicles between one lakh and three lakh, the State and Union governments shall share the cost equally. However, if the number of vehicles passing across a track is less than a lakh a day, then local municipal bodies should take up the construction of overbridge,” he said, implying that it was up to the Hassan City Municipal Council to take up the construction of a railway overbridge here.Meanwhile, a heated argument erupted between the participants and Mr. Simha on the issue. Taking exception to Mr. Simha’s statement, Venkateshmurthy said if that was the norm, then how did the ministry sanctioned railway overbridges at Halekote and Holenarsipur, where the traffic was far less compared with that of Hassan. Mr. Simha, trying to evade the question, said “You should ask this question to leaders of Holenarsipur.” This again attracted serious objection from Mr. Venkateshmurthy and others.Mr. Vardhan, however, intervened and said that he would bring the issue to the notice of officials concerned.People say the demand for railway overbridge had been submitted to Union government several months ago‘As per norms, Railway Ministry can bear cost of overbridges if over three lakh vehicles cross over a railway track’Participants seek to know how overbridges were sanctioned for Halekote and Holenarsipur