http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/It-takes-a-village/article13982560.ece

Most first films draw from the lives and experiences of their debutant directors. Chauranga is no exception. “It is about my early days and upbringing in a small village,” says filmmaker Bikas Mishra.You can see it in the medley of characters. Like the headman. Or the blind priest in the film who is inspired by Mishra’s own family Brahmin, who used to live alone in the village and was very fond of eating. For someone who should have been leading the life of an ascetic, the priest’s home was full of possessions, expensive ones at that. Mishra remembers how they were revealed to them after his death, when they found that his room was full of gifts received from patrons with barely enough space for him to sleep in.The zamindar’s house in the film is similar to the one Mishra himself grew up in. Now it is no longer what it used to be. “The house and village are from my memory of them, I wanted to recreate that ambience,” he says. So the film was a personal journey, back in time, to look at things from the distance and perspective of adulthood. “Growing up in a joint family there were things that didn’t make any sense back then but one can understand them now,” he says.These characters and places had always been there at the back of his mind for a long time. Only he was in search of a story to tie them together into a film. Then one day Mishra read a news report about a Dalit boy who had been killed for writing a love letter and the assorted characters found their way into the germ of a script.“Once I had a first draft ready I was relieved that the idea that I had been carrying in my head for so long had become my first, complete screenplay,” he says. This was in April 2010. The script was fleshed out further in the National Film Development Corporation’s Screenwriters’ Lab under the mentorship of Martin Roberts, who spent a lot of time working with Bikas. The central character is that of a rebellious child.“Robert wanted me write with that same anger within me,” says Mishra. He kept re-writing it for a long while and got into pre-production only after the 10th draft.For a first-timer Mishra didn’t have to go knocking at too many doors for funding. Filmmaker Onir decided to produce the film for him because he felt it was a story “worth telling”. All he told Bikas was to wait patiently and keep the faith. “He needed time but he made it happen for me,” says Mishra.The casting took about one and a half years. Mishra knew he couldn’t do the film with non-actors because the film is performance-driven and involved dialect training. Moreover, it had to be shot quickly, in just 20 days, in the villages of Bengal and Orissa.The most important aspect of the film is the caste divide it portrays. Mishra witnessed that up close, albeit from the privileged side. His closest friend and school buddy was a Dalit. “I went to his house, shared meals. My parents were liberal but the extended family often raised a finger,” he recollects. In fact, as an act of defiance, he once touched his friend’s father’s feet to seek his blessing and the poor man fell at his feet instead.Such discrimination, weird customs and practices have been part of the rural social fabric and they were accepted without any questioning. No wonder then that the most crucial scene in the film is that of a shocking act of defiance against such practices. It is like the culmination of a journey.“Things have to be destroyed and demolished for a new world to emerge,” says Mishra.All this while, he has lived faithfully with Chauranga . After the film’s screening in Mumbai International Film Festival in October last year and with its release this Friday Mishra can finally come out of it and move on to his next. Will it again be close to his life? That he ain’t telling.