http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/It-looks-different/article13980580.ece

Apart from the regular security cordon there were a group in orange uniforms escorting Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu who went around on a flower-decked open top vehicle to participate in the Visakha Utsav festival.The personnel in orange were from the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF). It is not clear whether the NDRF team is a regular component of the CM’s cavalcade or whether it was added in the city to cope with an eventuality like stampede or stage collapse.Perhaps the district administration deployed NDRF personnel as a matter of caution as the Beach Road, the main venue of the festivities, was choc-a-bloc with revellers and regular weekend beach visitors apart from the performers and organisers.A ‘waste’ walking!Piles of leftover food and plastic waste spread all over Sivaji Park, a popular destination in Visakhapatnam welcomes morning walkers with stink and unbearable stench. The decision to allow the park premises during daytime mainly on holidays has attracted several employees and caste-based outfits to organise feasts. As usual, the revellers leave the leftovers everywhere in the park.With no provision for night sanitation, the walkers are forced to continue their healthy habit in an unhealthy environment.“We hope the authorities will respond by addressing this problem,” remarked a regular walker.A reporter learnshis lessonJournalists feel they are special entity in society as they get recognition from all walks of life.The media personnel often mistake their closeness with politicians as an ‘eternal’ bond. The other day a senior journalist narrated an incident involving a reporter who felt he had close proximity with a minister.“When he was transferred he went to convey the news to the Minister who, much to his surprise, was keen on know the phone number of the reporter who was replacing him,” the senior scribe said. The ‘friendly reporter’ who was dumbstruck realised the bondage with the politician was just a matter of convenience.China talk makesbabus nervousKrishna Collector Babu A. has literally spoken the words of Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu and sounded alarm bells for the State government employees by projecting 2016 as the toughest year. “The fate of Amaravati, the new capital city of the ‘Sunrise State’ will depend on how we perform this year as a team,” he said and gave the example of China which had earlier built state-of-the-art cities in just two years.“Offices have bedrooms in China and the hardworking Chinese gave more importance for the completion of the projects,” he said, while addressing the district machinery and educational institutions with regard to the prestigious Amaravati Marathon. No wonder many faces of the officers at the air-conditioned hall turned pale as they felt that the ‘China talk’ by the district Collector was just a prelude to the much-anticipated grind in days to come.Bookwormsthrong festivalThe 27th Vijayawada Book Festival got off to a grand start and it succeeded in attracting a good number of book-lovers – shortage of space notwithstanding. Book ‘worms’ availed of the impressive discounts offered by the stall owners.Literary works brought out by reputed publishers caught their fancy.Academic publications by world famous universities are a major attraction among the youth while a wide variety of other books sustained the interest of visitors.(G.S. Subrahmanyam, Santosh Patnaik, G. Janardhan Rao, J.R. Shridharan, and V. Raghavendra)