http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Vijayawada/It-is-always-a-tough-fight-that-brings-out-the-winner/article14011572.ece

Fortune favours the brave. True to the adage, students of Teja Vidyalaya, Kodad, took a gamble and went for the buzzer guessing the answer for the final question.Much to the surprise of many, even the chief guest, Commissioner of Police Gautham Sawang, they were spot on with their intuition.The duo narrowly defeated St. Johns Public School, Gannavaram, to win the seniors (Classes VII to IX) category of the regional finals of the 16th The Hindu Young World Quiz Competition held at Siddhartha auditorium here on Wednesday.Even before the quiz master V.V. Ramanan completed the final question, which was about the famous Lingaraj temple in Bhubaneswar, the duo - V. Vasudeva Reddy and A. Manish - pressed the button, and their gamble paid off.The sudden surge by the Kodad team came as a shocker to the Gannavaram outfit, which, until that moment, was comfortably leading the pack. Both Md. Aziz-ur-Rehman and R. Karthik of St. John’s Public School, Gannavaram, and Neha Yarlagadda and Phani Sai Naren of Tripura English Medium School (TEMS), Rajahmundry, who finished second and third, put up a spirited show answering several questions on a wide variety of topics.Teja Vidyalaya, Kodad, St. John’s Public School, Gannavaram, and TEMS qualified for the final six from the 189 teams that participated in the preliminaries.The junior category (Classes IV to VI) witnessed a tough fight among six teams, which made it to the finals from 113 teams.In yet another splendid show, students of Teja Vidyalaya, Kodad, G. Sriram Reddy and T. Pavan, bagged the first prize.Pavan Kumar Reddy and Nehanth of Teja Talent School and K.S.V. Harthik and V. Lasya of TEMS won the second and third prizes.The 16th edition of the quiz was sponsored by the Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT) and powered by the State Bank of India (SBI).Firefox was the national gift partner and Kokuyo Camlin the goodie partner. Ilapuram Travels, Mithra Honda, Kottakkal Arya Vaidyasala, Modern Super Market, Sahiti Prachuranalu, Sweet Magic, Ashok Book Centre and Efftronics were regional sponsors. Students from Krishna, Guntur, Prakasam, West Godavari, East Godavari, Khammam and Nalgonda districts participated in the competition.