http://www.thehindu.com/business/Industry/ITC-reports-marginal-increase-in-its-third-quarter-turnover/article14016027.ece

ITC Ltd has reported subdued results during the third quarter reporting a marginal increase in turnover to Rs.9,176.70 crore from Rs.8,942.60 crore and a flat bottom line where net profit stood at Rs.2,652.8 crore, rising by a mere Rs.17 crore over a year.While the company could hem in its raw material costs, its other expenses due to new products and rolling out personal care products increased substantially.Finance costs, too, increased leading to an overall rise in expenditure to Rs. 5,834.10 crore from Rs.5,716 crore. ITC said though severe pressure continued on legal cigarette industry volumes, a sluggish demand environment and supply-chain disruption caused by the Chennai floods, impacted its other businesses which span from hotels to personal care, foods and paper.ITC’s FMCG segment saw a revenue growth of 7.1 per cent while hotels revenue rose by 4.5 per cent aided by healthy growth in occupancy and food and beverage revenue. Agri Business sales were impacted by lack of trading opportunities in wheat, coffee and soya and subdued demand for leaf tobacco exports on the back of decline in global cigarette volumes.Paper segment’s revenue and profits were driven by higher sales although domestic industry continued to face pressure on account of reduction of import duty under various regional Free Trade Agreements and cheap imports from China, according to a statement from ITC.During the quarter, ITC forayed into the fast-growing dairy category with the launch of cow ghee made at ITC’s own facility at Munger in Bihar. Sales of ‘YiPPee!’ Noodles, impacted during the past quarter due to regulatory issues largely pertaining to a competitor’s products, grew at a faster clip aided by an integrated communication campaign.The hospitality sector was adversely impacted by a weak pricing scenario in the backdrop of excessive room inventory in key domestic markets and sluggish macroeconomic environment both in India and major source markets. During the quarter, ITC’s Chennai hotels had to also contend with business disruption due to the floods.Cairn IndiaAnil Agarwal-owned Cairn India reported a net loss of Rs. 9.85 crore for the October–December period compared to a net profit of Rs.555 crore in the year ago period as its sales margin decreased due to fall in global crude oil prices.The largest private sector crude oil producer also saw its revenue falling to Rs.1124.9 crore during the quarter compared to revenue of Rs.1,868 crore during the year ago period despite 1.4 per cent growth in crude oil production in Rajasthan to 2,02,668 barrels of oil and equivalent per day (boepd). “The company will continue with its 40 per cent cut in capex during the year to $300 million,” said Mayank Ashar, Managing Director and CEO, Cairn India, during a conference call with analysts on Friday.Reliance CommunicationsAnil Ambani-owned Reliance Communications on Friday reported a net loss of Rs.769 crore in the October–December 2015 quarter compared to net loss of Rs.585 crore in the year-ago period.Revenues fell to Rs. 2,447 crore compared to Rs.2,814 crore in the year-ago period. The company attributed the fall in revenues due to expiry of 2G license in five circles.“We have successfully migrated the profitable customers to 3G in these five circles and achieved significant improvement in network coverage and quality through ICR (intra-circle roaming) arrangements with Vodafone and Aircel,” according to a company statement.On a consolidated basis, RCom’s net profit fell to Rs.171 crore compared to Rs. 201 crore in the year-ago period as revenues fell to Rs.5,298 crore during the quarter from Rs 5,469 crore in the year-ago period.BioconBiopharma major Biocon reported a 13 per cent increase in its net profit for the third quarter of FY 16 ending December 31, fuelled by growth in business from its contract research arm, Syngene.For the quarter, the company’s net profit stood at Rs.103 crore as against Rs. 91 crore during the corresponding year-ago period. Total revenues of the Bengaluru-based company grew nine per cent to Rs. 828 crore from Rs. 761 crore.During the quarter, Biocon’s R&D spend grew almost 45 per cent to Rs. 68 crore, reflecting the progress of its biosimilars and novel programmes.Commenting on the performance,Ms. Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, Chairperson and Managing Director, Biocon said: “Excluding profit contribution from Syngene, Biocon’s net profit this quarter has increased by 28 per cent y-o-y despite a 45 per cent jump in R&D spends and a significant increase in tax.”The company, in a regulatory filing, also said its four most advanced biosimilar and generic insulin programmes are on track for regulatory filings in the U.S. and Europe in the calendar year 2016. With this, Biocon expects an early mover advantage in $30 billion market.UnichemDrug firm Unichem Laboratories reported nearly ten-fold jump in standalone net profit to Rs. 20.54 crore for the quarter ended December 31, mainly on account of robust sales.The company had posted a profit of Rs.2.06 crore for the October-December quarter of the previous fiscal, 2014-15, Unichem Laboratories said in a filing to BSE.Standalone total income from operations of the company also rose.