http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/It%E2%80%99s-going-to-be-a-clash-of-the-titans/article13989220.ece

It is time for badminton fans to shuttle to Gachibowli Indoor Stadium from January 9 to 11, as some of the leading lights of the sport will showcase their skills in the Hyderabad-leg of the Premier Badminton League. One of the semi-final match is scheduled to be played here on January 15.The tickets will be available online at www.bookmyshow.com and priced at Rs. 500 each, with the matches starting at 7 p.m.The stars have descended on the city, with London Olympics bronze medallist Saina Nehwal being the cynosure of all eyes on Friday. She had a light training session with her Awadhe Warriors teammate Bhamidipati Sai Praneeth at the Gopichand Academy.And, the buzz is on, with some of the leading lights of badminton, including city-based Hyderabad Hunters’ star former world No. 1 Lee Chong Wei (though he lost both the singles matches so far in the PBL in this edition), and world No. 12 P.V. Sindhu leading for Chennai Smashers challenge, scheduled to play. Parupalli Kashyap and R.M.V. Guru Sai Dutt will also be in action for Hunters and Mumbai Rockets, with some of the young faces at the venue.With the tickets already said to be sold out for the first day’s matches, a capacity crowd is expected to cheer lustily for the players.It will be interesting to see whether there will be divided loyalties amongst them, as Saina Nehwal will be leading Warriors challenge on Saturday against Hyderabad Hunters, which also has the flamboyant and gifted doubles player Jwala Gutta in its ranks.“It is always a great feeling to play in front of the home crowd. Yes, it is always a different experience to play in front of boisterous crowds than empty stands,” says Mr. Kashyap, perhaps echoing the sentiments of his fellow players.For his part, Pullela Gopichand is pleased with the kind of response to the PBL. “This is the kind of crowd response any sport would welcome, for it helps in our case, and badminton itself in terms of popularity,” he says.