http://www.thehindu.com/entertainment/It%E2%80%99s-action-time-for-B-town-heroines/article14006931.ece

Several Bollywood leading ladies have ditched the singing and dancing routine to pack some punches in high-octane action movies, which are lined up for release in the coming months.B-town heroines like Priyanka Chopra, Sonakshi Sinha, Jacqueline Fernandez, Lisa Ray and newcomer Ritika Singh will be up against bad guys in action films.In Prakash Jha’s Jai Gangaajal, Priyanka Chopra plays the role of a cop. The action drama is a sequel to 2003 hit film Gangaajal. Priyanka Chopra in a still from 'Jai Gangaajal'. Photo courtesy: Twitter/@JaiGangaajal“It’s a great time for us ...it feels fantastic.Audiences are open to different kind of content on screen and it is proved with films like “Mary Kom”. It is indication that things are headed in the right direction and people are open to watch heroines hitting up people,” Priyanka told PTI.Actress Sonakshi Sinha’s next two films Akira and Force 2 are action films and she enjoyed doing it on screen. Sonakshi Sinha. Photo: PTI“I play a RAW agent in Force 2. I have done action films with the biggest heroes who are good at action. I have just learnt from them. I believe those experiences have prepared me to do a film like Akira and Force 2. It was a great experience, it challenged me... pushed my limits,” she said.The Dabangg actress believes in doing her own stunts.“I like doing my own stunts except when there is something that I am incapable of doing or something too dangerous. I have been trained enough for Akira to do my stunts and that training helped me in doing Force 2. I have injured myself so many times but one has to be careful every time,” she said.Jacqueline will also be seen in action film Dishoom alongside John Abraham and Varun Dhawan. Jacqueline Fernandez. Photo: Special Arrangement“I am part of the scenario. I get to do some action,” she added.Boxer Ritika Singh is making her debut in Hindi film industry with R Madhavan’s Saala Khadoos. Ritika Singh in 'Saala Khadoos' . Photo courtesy: Twitter/ @UTVMotionPicturesThe film features Madhavan in the leading role as a boxing coach, with newcomer Ritika as an aspiring boxer in the Sudha Kongara-directed movie, slated to hit the screens on January 29.Actress Lisa Ray will also be seen doing action in Ishq Forever. “I am so excited to play a strong, action oriented woman on screen,” she adds.Ishq Forever is an upcoming romantic drama musical film directed by Sameer Sippy.Speculations are also rife that Anushka Sharma will be playing a wrestler in Sultan that stars Salman Khan in the lead role.