http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/It%E2%80%99s-time-for-%E2%80%98sambaralu%E2%80%99/article13991836.ece

fter a meticulous cleaning regimen that goes on for days, many appear to be busy sprucing up their homes with elaborate rangoli and arranging bommala koluvu to usher in the festive mood.Sankranti is the time where women come up with theme-based muggulu speckled with gobbemmalu (fresh flowers placed on a handful of cow dung). The exercise of stocking ample quantities of colour powders and referring to books that consist of patterns of rangoli designs start off a little early for some.With Margasira masam adding to the festival fervour, the tradition of drawing muggulu in the front yard begins even before the break of the dawn. “There is a belief that ‘Sankranti purushudu’ or ‘Sankrumayya’ would descend on the earth during the harvest festival and bless people with prosperity and abundance. Hence the tradition of drawing muggulu and arranging bommala koluvu will be followed during the three-day Sankranti festival celebrated as Bhogi, Sankranti, and Kanuma ,” says K. Malayavasini, former HoD of Telugu Department, Andhra University.Recalling her childhood days, Ch. Sunitha, a retired employee of State Bank of India, says, “It used to be our vacation time during Sankranti where all our cousins meet at our grandma’s home in Veravallipalem, Rajahmundry. From decking up the home with intricate patterns of muggulu and fresh flowers to setting up steps for bommala koluvu and placing thematic clay idols, every preparation will be shared by the entire family members. Though I am settled in the port city, I miss the sense of camaraderie that was so profound earlier,” she says. Her house already sparkles with detailed bommala koluvu along with a special light arrangement.Significance of ritualsMany say that the rituals followed during Sankranti play a role in bringing a slice of rural life to the younger generation. “The pristine charm of the rural setting is something one should experience during festivals. Unfortunately, the urban youth hardly gets an opportunity to visit a village. However, we can educate them on the subject by setting up toys depicting koneru , Haridasu , gobbemmalu, and gangireddu among several mythological chapters as part of bommala koluvu ,” says C. Bhagyalakshmi, a homemaker.Promoting the culture and heritage, Ba Bapu Seva Sangham is featuring ‘rangoli’ and ‘mehendi’ competitions on Monday at Ba Bapu Bhavan. The venue will don a festive look with counters for chilaka jothishyam, Haridasu and other festival features from 10 a.m.The pristine charm of the rural setting is something one should experience during festivals.C. BhagyalakshmiA housewife