http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/entertainment/It%E2%80%99s-all-in-the-head/article14005833.ece

A great hat speaks for itself. And the good thing is that hats aren’t just for summer days. Come to think of it, with the temperature dipping, one of the most stylish accessories to flaunt today is a hat.Apart from helping keep the sharp winter sun off one’s face, one should know that hats are not meant only for bad hair days, to camouflage a disastrous haircut, or to conceal a receding hairline.According to stylist and fashion blogger Pranita Mehta, “A hat is an accessory that can elevate your style from normcore to haute couture . International trends in hats are speaking of French berets, bucket hats, brimmed fedoras, and helmet hats this season.”Manvi Gandotra, stylist, blogger, and photographer, says: “Berets, brimmed hats, felt hats, and knitted hats are some of the styles that are trending currently.”With fringes in fashion again, designer Niyati Manoj, says: “Fringes are as cool on hats as they are on bags and shoes. While the monochrome ones are a favourite, don’t fret about experimenting with colours. Another interesting trend is to perfectly match your outfit with your hat. As long as winter is here, go in for caps that feature cute pompoms. If you’re looking for a more subtle look, opt for silken scarves.”With so many styles in vogue, picking the perfect hat might seem like a daunting task but Manvi says: “Fit is everything, and one size doesn’t fit all. So try the hat and see if it stays in the right place. The other thing to keep in mind is to be true to your style. You may really like wide-brimmed hats from the 70s, but it’s not necessary that it would go with every outfit. So pick hats which go with your style sensibility.”Face shape plays a pivotal role in choosing the right hat. Pranita advises to “always look for a hat that elongates your face rather than making it look fuller.A perfect hat sits on the head even upside down!”Buying the perfect hat is one thing, styling it with panache is quite another. She says: “I would wear a French beret over slouchy knits, pullovers, or long coats that give an intense winter vibe. When your mood reflects a cool style, bucket hats are what you should look for. Wear them over short dresses or skirts and flats.To me, fedoras are not a part of any exclusive trend. A fedora hat is a must-have to reflect a Bohemian state of mind. Flared bottoms teamed with a fedora is a classic look anybody can pull off.These days, you even get embellished ones in a variety of colours and materials. The newest ones on the shelf are helmet hats.As the name goes, these structured hats bring oomph to the fun and free spirit. If you are not a fan of brimmed hats, these would work well with your florals and checkered looks.”Manvi finds: “Hats look great with frizzy hair, big hoops, and simple minimalistic outfits.”With sunnier months ahead, the good news is that hats will remain a favourite accessory.“You could continue to wear sunhats like the fedora even in April and May. Baseball caps are great to pull off that sporty chic getup,” Niyati predicts.So there you have it. All you need now to complete the hat trick is heaps of coolness when you throw on one!Come Derby season in February, and Mumbai puts its fashion foot forward. A big fashion statement at the races is to don a hat, fascinator or a funky headgear.It is predominantly sunny in Mumbai but the hats and head accessories are hardly to fight off the UV.Head accessories are making a huge outing at weddings, parties and even the ramp.So what if we don’t have the likes of Irish milliner Philip Treacy readily available, Mumbai has its own array of designers who can turn your race-day or theme-party outfit into something worthwhile. Here is our list of designers who can make you a custom-made fascinator and headgear in Mumbai.Farzad Billimoria Pooja House, Juhu Tara Road, Juhu. Opposite JW Marriott. Ph: 9819381746Maiti Shahani facebook.com/maiti.shahani/ Ph: 9930296363Isha Ahluwalia 1/29, Kamal Mansion, Level 2, Arthur Bunder Road, Colaba. Ph: 22838505Delna Poonawalla Delna Poonawalla’s clothes are available at Ceejay House, Upper Basement, Worli, Mumbai. Ph: 24950533Email: fashiondelnapoonawalla@gmail.comLittle Shilpa Email: contact@littleshilpa.comfacebook.com/littleshilpadesignValliyan by Nitya2, Machinery House Kala Ghoda. Phone: 9322797331 / 22676388