http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/It%E2%80%99s-in-the-daughter-sign/article14001493.ece

When it comes to women’s career paths, it is true that dad’s influence plays an increasingly weighty role. The case of P.G. Asha, station master at the newly built Puthunagaram Railway Station in Palakkad, was no different. It was the inspiration from her loco-pilot father, P.S. Gopalakrishnan, that prompted Ms. Asha to reject the probationary officer’s post offered by a bank and don the mantle of station master.The thrill she enjoyed after accepting the railway job increased many-fold in the last three weeks ever since her posting in Puthunagaram. Mr. Gopalakrishnan is loco-pilot of a passenger train that runs between Palakkad and Pollachi in the newly gauge converted route via Puthunagaram.When the train approaches the station, it would be the duty of Ms. Asha to wave the green flag indicating to her loco pilot father that the track remains clear.The train passes through the station four times a day and on each occasion the father and daughter are turning formal. The father would contact the daughter through walkie-talkie introducing himself as loco pilot of the approaching train. She would introduce herself as Puthunagaram station master.Mr. Gopalakrishnan had won bravery award for stopping the train suddenly and moving out to close a railway gate where the guard failed to reach in time for duty. It was this action of her father that inspired her to become a station master, she says.In fact, Asha inherits a rich family legacy of serving the Railways. Her grandfather P.S. Sekhara Mannadiar was a loco pilot who operated steam engine during the British period.“It is a rare honour for me. I became part of the Railways in 1979 but there was not even a remote dream that one day my daughter would give me green signal. Asha was born in 1989 and well in studies. It is indeed a pleasant coincidence,” says Mr. Gopalakrishnan.Bravery of a loco pilot inspires his daughter to become a stationmaster