http://www.thehindu.com/features/magazine/It%E2%80%99s-just-another-day/article13990362.ece

Outspoken, confident and quick-witted, 34-year-old Sudarshan Parthasarathy could well be the guy next door, but behind the easy demeanour he is fighting a quiet battle against haemophilia, a rare bleeding disorder that is inherited and affects about one in 5,000 men. Someone with haemophilia typically bleeds for a longer time than others after an injury or may even bleed internally.Born with Type A of the X-linked genetic disorder, Sudarshan had to be careful when playing games on the school playground or in the neighbourhood. His childhood was marked by numerous bleeding episodes and constant bleeding in his joints. “It was a struggle,” recalls Sudarshan. “My hands would bleed… it was spontaneous.”As much as the bleeding, the stress was hard to bear. It was especially difficult during school exams. “I had intestinal bleeding just before my Class 12 exams,” he recalls.The disruptive disorder continued right through Sudarshan’s college days. He spent numerous days in hospital and lost out on attendance. “But this time, I did not let it affect my performance,” he says.Instead of buckling under in the face of adversity, Sudarshan became mentally stronger. He decided to tackle the disorder and get on with life. He went on to complete his Masters degree in India. His decision to pursue a Ph.D took him to the U.S., where he met with a fresh set of challenges — his health took a turn for the worse, he could not work, and he became practically disabled. He managed to finish his Doctorate only when he was allowed to make his presentation sitting down.Now settled in Pennsylvania, Sudarshan is at home in the U.S., retaining his sense of humour and infectious energy. Top-notch medical facilities and the best doctors have made life almost normal.His battle against haemophilia has not entirely been lonely. His parents have seen him through the worst of it. In fact, before Sudarshan’s birth, they lost their first child to the disorder because of internal bleeding in the skull. Sudarshan’s grandfather too had succumbed to haemophilia.When Sudarshan was born, his parents’ resolve just got stronger. Sudarshan’s father was a banker while his mother gave up a media job to focus on bringing up their son. “Those days, medicines were few and expensive, and just one dose would wipe out a year’s savings,” says Sudarshan. His parents were determined to cope with the stress of dealing with their son’s frequent bleeding episodes.Their battle made them realise that there might be others who need help in dealing with the disorder. That is when they started the Madras chapter of the Haemophilia Society of India. “It literally started in my mother’s kitchen,” says Sudarshan. Today, it has grown into a full-fledged hospital.“My parents are a motivation… seeing them go through all these sacrifices and serve society,” says Sudarshan.His parents have been a big pillar of support for Sudarshan but he had to cope with a fair bit of teasing from other kids during his childhood. His bleeding was regularly met with taunts such as “You are made of glass” and “You are faking it.” Today, he shrugs off his disorder and takes it in his stride. “I have never wanted to act like a person with a disability,” he says.Despite this positive frame of mind, life continues to be a daily challenge for Sudarshan. He works in a hospital and cannot stand for long periods of time. Sadly, the nature of his job requires him to stand for long. To cope, Sudarshan keeps himself physically active. He has to watch his weight to avoid stress on the knee joints, where he underwent surgery recently because of the pain. He goes for walks, swims and hits the gym regularly.With a supportive wife and two daughters who keep him on his toes, Sudarshan’s sunny disposition more than makes up for the challenges and makes him ready to face any situation.He is actively in touch with other haemophilia patients, and his advice to others with the disorder is simple: “Be positive, have fun, keep good company and work around the problem.”