http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Kochi/It%E2%80%99s-a-high-five-for-the-dialysis-centre-in-Aluva/article14026635.ece

The Regional Dialysis Centre at the Aluva district hospital will be completing five years on Friday. The success of the first community dialysis centre has made the government start 12 other centres across the State, providing succour to terminally-ill renal patients for whom the only cure is kidney transplant.With increasing kidney diseases, the dialysis centre had been able to provide quality service at affordable rates to the weaker sections, thereby improving the quality of life.Starting with a total of 11 dialysis units, the centre now has 23 units. A new unit will be added on Friday, the anniversary day.Besides arranging costly drugs like erythropoietin at subsidised rates to patients, the Centre also counsels patients and persuades them to take up some work that their medical condition permits.The centre has so far completed 46,000 dialyses. Unlike most other centres that limit free or subsidised treatment to 50 or 100 dialyses, the patients here are assured lifelong treatment. While this reduced the number of beneficiaries, it had not cut down the number of procedures. Six patients got off dialysis after transplant. The Centre had arranged all eligible government support for dialysis, transplant and even post-transplant medication for patients, said Dr. N. Vijayakumar, medical officer.The outcome or impact of the initiative been audited or evaluated by many independent agencies for reality check of the realised benefits vis-à-vis those envisaged. Several governmental and non-governmental agencies have rated the project highly, said Dr. Vijayakumar.The latest delegation to visit the centre was a team representing five South Asian countries led by Prof. Dr. Hideaki Takahashi of Keio University, Japan.The centre was initiated by P. Rajeev, when he was MP and Cochin Shipyard has so far contributed Rs. 47.50 lakh towards subsidised dialyses programme.The centre has been providing quality service at affordable rates to weaker sections.