http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/It%E2%80%99s-a-problem-of-productivity/article14025997.ece

India has the highest population of livestock and produces a whopping 147 million metric tonnes of milk, a number that is unsurpassed by any other country. But when it comes to productivity, it is way behind most other nations. Just for example, Israel’s productivity is 10 times more.The cropped area used to grow fodder for the animals has remained static, at just 4 per cent for about 40 years now. Despite efforts to leverage cross-breeding of our livestock with those in other countries where the per-animal yield of milk is much, much more, our cows and buffaloes are unable to cope with the climatic variation and 40 per cent of the livestock population is either unproductive when it comes to milk yields or of very little use.These were some points that were repeatedly referred to, by about a dozen experts including senior bureaucrats, some of whom are veterinary doctors themselves, at the inaugural of a four-day International Livestock Conference & Expo as a part of the 23{+r}{+d}annual convention of Indian Society of Animal Production and Management (ISAPM), hosted by its South India chapter here from Thursday.Vice-Chancellors Dr. S. Thilagar (Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences University), Dr. Manmohan Singh (Sri Venkateswara Veterinary University) and Suresh Chanda (Sri P.V. Narasimha Rao Telangana State University for Veterinary, Animal and Fisheries Sciences) outlined the challenges and wanted the researchers and scientists to come up with solutions. Welcoming the gathering of a few hundreds, ISAPM President Prof. K. Sarjan Reddy said innovation and automation would come under sharp focus with the key being how to get the best of productivity with the least, optimal inputs, while Associate Dean at the College of Veterinary Science here, Prof. K. Kondal Reddy spoke of the most important challenge was alternate feed for animals and the need to conserve native breeds and maintain the ecological balance.