http://www.thehindu.com/features/downtown/It%E2%80%99s-spruce-up-time-at-Gopalapuram/article13977014.ece

Each family in North Gopalapuram has had a special gift this New Year: bins of two different colours. The newly-formed North Gopalapuram Residents Welfare Association might have started a little late, but they are confident of bringing about incremental changes in their neighbourhood by asking every household to start segregating waste.The campaign, which kicked off on January 1, will cover the seven streets of North Gopalapuram. Members are also in talks with Corporation officials and a private conservancy agency to ensure two different bins are placed at the end of the streets and see if door-to-door collection of waste could be started.So far, K.S. Subramanian, president of the Association, has visited close to 20 families to give them the bins and also to educate them about segregating wet and dry waste. The Association has procured nearly 200 bins and plans to scale it up in the weeks to come.“I have also roped in my wife Dr. Nirmala Subramanian, a plastic surgeon, who is well-known in the locality,” says Subramanian, a resident of Besant Road.Registered last month, the Association has a longer wishlist for the locality.“We are late bloomers, but we plan to take up a range of initiatives as quickly as we can,” says Subramanian, a resident of the area for the last five decades.Around 120 saplings have been planted on various streets and are protected with tree guards.“We have an executive committee member in every street and each of them will oversee the care given to the saplings,” says S.M. Chellasamy, treasurer of the Association. Every resident has been asked to water the saplings near his house.One of its objectives -- ‘keeping the streets clean’ -- was also launched recently when the residents, along with members of ‘Thuvakkam’ cleaned the roads. Five truckloads of debris were removed through the drive.All these initiatives will work if more residents participate. “Around 130 members have joined so far and we are on a drive to enrol more,” adds Chellasamy.