http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/It%E2%80%99s-raining-GHMC-apps/article14018331.ece

Ahead of the GHMC elections, the civic body has the choicest of mobile apps dedicated to it, which range from grievances to election information. Presently, there are more than five mobile apps that have been developed with an aim to help people closely engage with the GHMC officials.Developed by city techies, IT companies as well as the civic body, most of these apps have been brought out as part of social initiatives.One of the first to enter the fray, ‘Citizen Next’ was built by Microsoft. Through this app, citizens can report grievances quickly and accurately to the officials. A little more than a year after its launch, the app has managed to get 12,000 downloads with more 9,000 complaints registered.If taking a photo of the problem and uploading is one part of it, then the tracking system only makes it easier for the complainants to follow-up on their problem. The grievance system also notifies the problem to the concerned officer to take the required action.With a somewhat similar model, another Android app was released last week. Called ‘Local Leader’, the app was developed by IT professional Mohd. Abulumair. Not just officials, but activists as well as local leaders of various political parties active in each ward will have their profiles on it. Once a complaint is made through the app, all these members will get updates. The idea is to not just provide a platform for the public to complain, but also involve all the stakeholders of the issue for speedy action.The GHMC has also developed an app to facilitate voters in the city with smartphones and Android facility to download their voter slips for the upcoming elections. The voters can enter their EPIC/ Voter ID number in the option available in the app to get their voter slip.If all these apps can be downloaded free of cost and meant for the public, then an app – ‘Mera Leader’ – exclusively for contesting GHMC candidates comes at a hefty charge of Rs.15,000. The app will provide crucial information related to voters of a particular ward like the size and ages of voters.