http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Jagan-requests-Speaker-to-revoke-suspension-of-Roja/article13995905.ece

Opposition leader in Andhra Pradesh Assembly and YSR Congress president Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has requested Speaker Kodela Sivaprasada Rao to revoke the suspension of his party MLA R.K. Roja respecting the time tested Business Rules of the Assembly.The motion that was passed suspending Ms. Roja for a period of one year under Rule 340 (2) was against the provisions under the rule and hence, “illegal and unconstitutional”. In a letter addressed to the Speaker, Mr. Jagan said in accordance with the provisions under Rule 340, the Chair should put the motion for voting and suspend the member from the service of the House for a period not exceeding the remainder of the session.When the Legislative Affairs Minister moved the motion on December 18 for suspension of Ms. Roja, the Chair ought to have objected to the motion as it was against the provisions of the said Rule. “The motion was adopted and this is very unfortunate and certainly a black day in the long history of the Assembly,” he said.The YSRC president faulted the Legislative Affairs Minister for trying to cover up his mistake by claiming that the House was supreme and there was no need to follow the Business rules. “How can the Minister, who was Speaker for five years, say that the rules are irrelevant? Why do we have rules?” he asked adding to say that Business Rules were irrelevant smacks of ignorance of the law of the land.He said that the very foundation of the constitutional democracy rested on the principle that no power or immunity vested in any constitutional authority was absolute and unfettered and therefore, could not be exercised arbitrarily or in pick and choose manner. The Supreme Court had intervened on several occasions in the past when decisions were taken by the constitutional authority against rules and principles of natural justice.Moreover, the Legislative Affairs Minister claimed that the suspended member would not be eligible for any privileges as MLA and could not draw salary or stay in the official residence allotted to her. “Does he not realise that she has been suspended only from the services of the House and that her membership is in tact?” he wondered.Mr. Jagan cited the unruly happenings in the Parliament in February 2014 when members came to blows and one member used pepper spray and said then Lok Sabha Speaker Meira Kumar had suspended the members for the remainder of the session, because that was the rule.“How can the A.P. Assembly follow an entirely different interpretation of rules from the rest of the country particularly for a much smaller offence?” he said.