http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Janapada-Academy-Awards-to-be-given-away-tomorrow/article13989425.ece

Thirty folklore artists will be given away Karnataka Janapada Academy Awards for 2015 at a function at the Kannada Sahitya Parishat auditorium here on Sunday.Academy chairman Pichalli Srinivas told presspersons on Friday that Minister of State for Kannada and Culture Umashree would give away the award carrying a purse of Rs. 5,000, a plaque, and a commendation certificate.The Minister would also give away a special subject experts award instituted in the name of Dr. B.S. Gaddigimath to Vice-Chancellor of the Central University of Karnataka H.M. Maheshwaraiah and another instituted in the name of Dr. Jeshampa to Vijayalakshmi Seethapur.The award carries a purse of Rs. 10,000 and a citation.Mr. Srinivas said that the award ceremony would be preceded by a seminar on the contribution of the Sufi, Fakir and Darvesh cultures to the folklore.Senior Journalist Dinesh Amin Mattoo, media advisor to Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, would inaugurate the seminar. Research scholar Mujafar Asadi, Nataraj Boodalu and Meenakshi Bali would deliver special lectures.The award-winning folklore artists are Malakari Snagappa Katageri, Sannamma, Ganapathi Yellappa Kale, Divijan, Shivannegowda, Lakshmamma Aduru Chalavadi, Basavannappa V. Atamaligi, Mayamma, Lakshmamma, Ganga Huchamma, Gulachar Ahmed Shaha Makandar, Subash Saibanna Pujari, Sanganagouda, Veerappa, Mallarappa Sagar, Pushpalatha, Thoti Muniyamma, Earappa Gangappa Katti, Padma Pambada, Dhrakshayani, Kudiyur Sharada, lakshmamma, Mylarappa, Mutyalamma, Yellappa Gudrad, Sumitra, Doulatbai, Thayamma, Ramavva Jogati, and Dadu Koraga.Mr. Srinivas said that the academy would host another function at the Central University of Karnataka to release 20 comprehensive Kannada Janapada and Yakshagana Male volumes on Saturday.The programme would be inaugurated by Hi. Shi. Ramachandre Gowda, chairman of the Comprehensive Kannada Janapada and Yakshagana Sahitya Male, and the volumes would be released by Jogan Shankar, Vice-Chancellor of Kuvempu University at Shivamogga.