http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/tamil-nadu/Jayalalithaa%E2%80%99s-Assembly-address-is-a-%E2%80%98bag-of-lies%E2%80%99-charges-Stalin/article14019317.ece

Mocking at Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s speech in the Assembly , Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam treasurer M.K. Stalin has said that her 75-minute-long address was nothing but a ‘bag of lies’.Addressing a meeting here on Sunday in which over 1,000 Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam cadres joined the DMK, Mr. Stalin said that the ruling All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, which had a sizable number of MPs in the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha, could have exerted pressure on the Centre for getting additional funds for rehabilitating flood victims. Ms. Jayalalithaa miserably failed to carry out flood relief operations in a meticulous manner, and could not even get adequate Central assistance.She had let down the Tamils in vacating the Supreme Court’s ban on conducting ‘jallikattu’ when the AIADMK MPs could have raised the issue in Parliament in a more intense fashion.“Even as the Tamils are fuming over the ban on jallikattu, Ms. Jayalalithaa has thanked the Centre in her address in the Assembly for obvious reasons. Since she is facing the appeal in the disproportionate assets case in the Supreme Court, she is praising and thanking the Central government unnecessarily,” Mr. Stalin noted.He also disputed the Chief Minister’s claim on the law and order situation and employment opportunities created in Tamil Nadu after she came to power in 2011. The government had failed to create employment opportunities at least to a few hundred unemployed youths as no big industry was established in Tamil Nadu though it was claimed that memoranda of understanding were signed for Rs. 2.42 lakh crore industrial investments in the Global Investors’ Meet.Ms. Jayalalithaa had promised during electioneering in 2011 that her government would make Tamil Nadu a ‘power surplus’ State, not even 1 MW of electricity had been generated additionally. “It was done purposely for purchasing power from private companies for obvious reasons,” Mr. Stalin said.The DMK treasurer also criticised the relatives of Sasikala, close confidante of Ms. Jayalalithaa, for reportedly amassing wealth even after they were convicted by a special court in the disproportionate assets case.