http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Jayarajan%E2%80%99s-bail-plea-evokes-a-sense-of-d%C3%A9j%C3%A0-vu/article13996279.ece

Even as the District and Sessions Court at Thalassery has posted for January 18 the passing of order on an anticipatory bail application moved by Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] district secretary P. Jayarajan, a sense of déjà vu is not missed as regards the aftermath of the investigation by the Central Bureau of India (CBI) into the murder of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) worker E. Manoj.District and Sessions judge V.G. Anilkumar posted the order in the anticipatory bail application for next Monday. Mr. Jayarajan’s filing of the application in response to the CBI’s notice asking him to appear before the investigating officers on Tuesday looks a re-play of the events that followed the CBI’s questioning Mr. Jayarajan in Thiruvananthapuram on June 2 as part of the probe into the murder of the RSS worker at Kathirur here on September 1, 2014.Political circles abuzzPolitical circles here are again abuzz with speculation about the outcome of the court’s order in the anticipatory bail plea.A missing ingredient this time is the reaction of the CPI(M) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to the situation following CBI’s notice to Mr. Jayarajan, though the CPI(M) leader in his anticipatory bail application said the CBI was likely to arrest and harass him to implement the Sangh Parivar’s political agenda. The reticence by both the rival parties having a crucial stake in the investigation into the case is not overlooked by political circles.A familiar question being asked here now, as it was asked six months ago, is what if Mr. Jayarajan’s plea is rejected. On July 24 last year, the court rejected his earlier anticipatory bail application citing that the plea could not be granted in a case involving offences charged under Sections of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.The judge then endorsed the CBI’s argument that anticipatory bail could not be granted in cases registered under Section 43D of the Act.Mr. Jayarajan’s arrest was thought to be imminent then as the CBI shifted its probe to the conspiracy angle of the Manoj murder. Political rivals then alleged that Mr. Jayarajan’s hospitalisation and his leave absence from party duties in July last year was to avert arrest.