http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/JDU-suspends-MLA-accused-of-harassing-couple/article14016326.ece

Ruling Janata Dal (United) on Saturday suspended party MLA Sarfaraj Alam who was accused of “ >misconduct and molestation” with a passenger couple traveling in Rajdhani Express from Dibrugarh to New Delhi. Earlier on Friday, coalition partner Rashtriya Janata Dal chief Lalu Prasad Yadav and his minister son Tej Pratap Yadav had said that the JD(U) MLA should be sent to jail for what he allegedly has done.“Party has suspended Sarfaraj Alam as his conduct and behaviour was sullying the image of the party”, Basistha Narayan Singh, state JD(U) president told journalists after meeting of top party leaders got over on the issue. The meeting went for over two hours at chief minister Nitish Kumar’s official residence 7, Circular Road.Sarfaraj Alam, son of RJD MP Mohd Taslimuddin, is JD(U) MLA from Jokihat assembly constituency of Araria district. Earlier, on January 18 an FIR was lodged against Mr Alam on the charges of “misbehavior and molestation” with a passenger couple traveling in Dibrugarh-Rajdhani Express. The victim passengers Indrapal Singh Bedi and his wife had lodged complaint against the MLA under IPC section 341, 323,290,504, 354A and 34 with the Railway police at Patna junction.However, the MLA had later refuted the charges and said he was not even traveling by the train on that day. He also said it was a “big political conspiracy against him”. But the investigating team of police got sufficient evidences against the MLA and sent summons to him to appear before it on Saturday evening. Mr Alam, though, appeared in the evening where his interrogation was going till late Saturday evening.Meanwhile, earlier in the day, chief minister Nitish Kumar hinted that party would take action against the MLA saying, “nobody was above law”. “There is a code of conduct in our party and whoever he is, be it MP, MLA or anybody violating the code will not be tolerated”, Nitish Kumar said. Mr Kumar also said that Mr Alam had contacted his office on January 18 and he was given time to meet him on January 19 but he did not turn up. “And, then I realized there is something fishy in it”, said Mr Kumar.Later in the day, Mr Kumar held meeting with party president Sharad Yadav, state party chief Basistah Narayan Singh and other top party leaders at his residence and took decision to suspend Sarfaraj Alam from the party.However, when asked about the other party MLA from Rupauli Bima Bharti and party MP from Purnea Santosh Kushwaha whose name had come up in helping gangster Awadhesh Mandal who is husband of Ms Bharti, to flee from the police custody at Maranga police station in Purnea district recently, Mr Singh said, “Nobody will be spared…once the administrative report on their role would come and if they would be found guilty, the party will take action against them also”. Mr Mandal was later re-arrested from Naugacchia in Bhagalpur.The RJD chief Lalu Prasad has welcomed the move of JD(U) to suspend the MLA Sarfaraj Alam. “Its good that he has been suspended”, quipped Mr Prasad who earlier had said, “such people should be sent to jail as they bring infamy to the government and party by their misconduct”.