http://www.thehindu.com/sport/other-sports/Jeev-may-mix-up-nationalities-in-pairings/article13995983.ece

Team Asia captain Jeev Milkha Singh on Tuesday hinted that he might not stick to nationalities while pairing his players to take on Europe in the second EurAsia Cup at the Glenmarie Golf and Country Club beginning on Friday.Jeev said: “I still haven’t finalised it (pairings). We’ll finalise it on Thursday evening.“I’m going to mix them up, to give you an honest answer, to see how it goes. But maybe I could change my mind, I’m not 100 per cent sure, but most probably going to mix them up,” added the Indian golfer.Ryder Cup superstar Darren Clarke was also busy ironing out Europe’s strategies with just two days left for the main event.Clarke said, “I didn’t know who my pairings are going to be. I’ve thought about it long and hard this past while. I’ve put a lot of work in it and a lot of the team behind it. So hopefully my choice are going to be proven correct, we shall see. Barring any last-minute changes, I’m pretty set on what I’m going to do. I don’t know what order I’m going to put them out, but I do know.”Jeev is convinced that an event of this kind is a big boost for golf worldwide. He said: “Europe and Asia are very close to each other, we have a lot of co-sanctioned events and we’ve had that for many years.“And the good part is that the top players are playing with each other. They know each other’s games, and what happens with that is the Asian players can build their confidence and they know that they are playing on the big stage and the world stage, and from there, they can move on and follow their dream, whether it’s the European Tour or the US tour.”Clarke echoed the same feeling, saying: “Exactly what Jeev is saying. The European Tour, we’ve had The Ryder Cup for a long time, and you know, certainly for a natural progression with how supportive the Asian Tour have been of The European Tour for a long, long time, and to have a tournament like this match-play tournament, which we don’t have many of, it gives the Asian guys the ability to show the world how good they are.”