http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Jewellery-with-soul/article13990278.ece

Sixty-five gleaming pieces of jewellery line the racks at Evoluzione. As they took form, from raw material to finely-finished understated jewellery, these pieces left behind a trail of broken stones — the result of obsessive experimentation. “We tried a lot of new cuts, some worked, some didn’t, and quite a few stones broke in the process. My stone cutters aren’t really fond of me,” smiles jewellery designer Ananya Malhotra. The 24-year-old has just launched her line, Naya, at Evoluzione.There are two collections on display — Celestial Lotus, where the patterns are sharp, and Synergies that’s more delicate and light-weight; both inspired by the chakras. There are earrings, bracelets, bangles and neckpieces in white gold and rose gold, encrusted with rubies, black and white diamonds, pearls and pink tourmaline. Her collection will next be displayed in Delhi in February and in London in May.Trained at Central Saint Martins, London, Ananya says her design aesthetics are influenced by that sensibility. While working in India, she had different guidelines to adhere to. “Jewellery is a big deal in India. People are superstitious about stones. Also, it’s still a bit of a conservative market here. But, it is a positive sign that rather than locking up jewellery, people are embracing jewellery they can wear.”Jewellery designing wasn’t Ananya’s first choice. She dabbled with fashion illustration, spent time in her father’s factory (she is the daughter of Tina and Atul Malhotra, who launched the multi-designer retail outlet Evoluzione), learning pattern-making. It was a choice between fashion and jewellery, and when she joined college in London, it was jewellery that fascinated her. “Fashion, to me, seemed a bit superficial. Jewellery is like an art form that you can wear. I started going into the history of ornaments in India and what they represent. I wanted to take Indian philosophy and use it in my creations,” she says.The idea to launch Naya happened when Ananya interned with Amrapali for a college project in 2013. The designs were more costume jewellery-like. The same year, she did a project with Swarovski, where she created bridal shackles for a fashion show. And then, improvising on those, she came up with her line this year. “My designs are between something very feminine and geometric. They are all monotones with dashes of colour thrown in,” she says. And what about pieces like shackles? “I am keeping the line very PG this time,” she laughs.(Naya is on display today at Evoluzione on Khader Nawaz Khan Road.)