http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/Jilted-lover-held-for-killing-sisters/article14018582.ece

Sexual jealousy had led an auto driver to murder a 21-year-old girl and her minor sister in East Delhi’s Khichripur on Friday, the police said after arresting the suspect. The younger of the two girls was killed because she happened to wake up and witnessed her sister’s murder.Soon after the murders came to light, the victims’ parents had accused 28-year-old Tahir of stalking their elder daughter Poonam and threatening her if she did not marry him. Police said that while they were still probing the stalking allegations, Tahir has told them that he and Poonam were in a relationship for several months.“When Poonam recently learnt that Tahir had been married for the last four years, she broke up with him. That had left Tahir seething with anger and he regularly threatened her,” said a senior investigator based on the suspect’s interrogation.Recently, Tahir had seen Poonam with another man. “A furious Tahir had warned Poonam to keep away from that person. When she told Tahir to stay away, he decided to eliminate her,” said the officer.Aware that Poonam and her sister slept late after the departure of their parents for work every morning, Tahir allegedly gained a friendly entry into the woman’s house around 10.30 a.m.He then shut the door from inside and attempted to strangulate Poonam. A scuffle ensued, causing a plate of macaroni to fall on the floor, the sound woke up Poonam’s 12-year-old sister Swati.“Tahir wanted to leave no eyewitnesses, so he decided to kill both the girls. Since the victims had frail physiques, they were unable to put up a fight and were both strangulated.Closed doors and windows because of the cold weather conditions meant no one heard the girls’ cries for help,” the officer said.Tahir then allegedly latched the door from outside and slipped away. It was only when a woman approached Poonam to remind her about a job interview scheduled for later that day, did the double murder come to light.The girls’ faces bore some scratch marks and there were clear signs of strangulation on their necks, but there was also froth coming out of their mouths. While poisoning too was initially suspected, Tahir has denied it and police are awaiting the autopsy report before coming to a conclusion.Tahir was nabbed late Friday evening from the same area and was put through sustained interrogation during which he allegedly confessed to the crime.“The victim (Poonam) used to earlier work at a call centre and Tahir used to drop her to office. They had become friends during that period,” said the officer.Poonam had broken up with Tahir after she came to know that he was married