http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Jowar-gets-a-jolt-as-NK-farmers-take-to-toor/article13993976.ece

It is hard to imagine a north Karnataka meal without the signature jolada rotti (jowar roti). But, this important staple of the region is slowly vanishing, with area under jowar cultivation and production coming down. The statistics of the Agriculture Department reflects this in the last three years alone; 12.63 lakh hectares down to 10.46 lakh hectares.Farmers have been losing interest in jowar cultivation and this has been seen across Kalaburagi, Vijayapura, Bagalkot, Belagavi, Raichur and Bidar districts, which are among the highest jowar-growing districts of the State. “There are various factors that are contributing to reduction of jowar cultivation. One of them is attraction towards growing more remunerative crops like toor,” says Shankar Rao Kulkarni, Technical Officer and agriculture expert, at the Regional Agriculture Research Station here.Other factors: relative absence of mechanisation in jowar cultivation and harvest, coupled with shortage of labour are also adding to the decline.Elaborating on the cost factor, he said while an acre could produce six quintals of jowar and fetch up to Rs. 15,000, toor gives double the revenue despite an average production of three quintals in an acre of land. Joint Director of the Agriculture Department, Manjunath, points out that one of the limitations of jowar is that it does not have as many by products compared to wheat or maize. However, Mr. Kulkarni said jowar has no serious threat in the near future. “No doubt, farmers are switching over to pulses, but it is a temporary trend. The food habits will never get wiped out completely. Even if the farmers are cultivating toor, eventually, they will have to grow jowar also because they can’t eat toor like jowar. Thus, one need not fear that jowar will be out of our plates,” he said. Prices go upThe reduction of jowar production has affected the prices this year, which is good news for farmers, but hard on the pockets of consumers. Abdul Rauf Inamdar, a farmer of Utnal village here, said that this year, a quintal of jowar is sold at between Rs. 3,000 and Rs. 3,500. “Only this year, the prices have considerably increased compared to the last five years where the cost was between Rs. 1,200 and Rs. 1,800 quintal only,” he said.The declining production of jowar has also hit the retail customer as the prices of jowar in retail market have significantly increased in the last five years. S.N. Babaleshwar, one of the retail jowar traders says that while five years ago, the cost of jowar was between Rs. 14 and Rs.18 a kg, it has shot to Rs. 28 and 32 a kg. “On an average, the customer who used to buy 10 kg jowar will now buy just about half of it,” he said.Changing food cultureHas reduction in production of jowar, coupled with its non-availability through the public distribution system (PDS), changing people’s preference for jowar?To an extent, people are switching to wheat-based products, says veteran writer and historian Krishna Kolhar Kulkarni, who has spent his entire life in Vijayapura.“It is the price factor and decreased production that is prompting this. However, they have not given up eating jowar. They still love and will love to eat this staple food,” he said.Jolada rotti, a must on the plateJolada rotti or bhakri is the all-important dish of a typical north Karnataka meal. Making of this rotti is regarded quite an art since jowar flour is non-glutinous. It comes in two variants — the soft variety or the kadak (hard) variety. While the former is eaten fresh, the latter has a longer shelf life. 