http://www.thehindu.com/features/education/college-and-university/Just-for-the-day/article14001568.ece

It is most humbling to read last year’s resolutions, the ink still fresh and the promises made, long forgotten! It is a delightful ritual, the act of being inspired to write down a series of lists, and it is only when one encounters them again (a year later) that one realises that they looked much better on paper than in reality!Till date neither has one completed a marathon, stopped indulging in chocolate or learnt a foreign language. All these promises were made with utmost sincerity, but somewhere along the line, the prospect of a marathon rendered one breathless, chocolate made its sweet presence felt and learning a new language, was well very foreign!Like falling in loveA resolution is perhaps like the act of falling in love! The initial infatuation can take a nose dive once one experiences ground reality! For example, many of us might strive to learn a new instrument. The enthusiasm in the early days slowly wanes as we realise that we cannot become the idol of our dreams and we deal with our bruised fingers and egos! The guitar bought with much enthusiasm, makes its way to the loft or a new home, depending on the strings of its destiny.Perhaps, instead of trying to battle the year ahead, we can still make our resolutions, and allow it to manifest, just for a day! Perhaps, there are resolutions we can try for a day, beyond the conventional desires of learning or acquiring a new skill. Here are a few ideas for, “just for a day, resolutions”:Just for a day, watch the “Gossip”: One of the pleasures in life seems to be the joy we get from talking about other people. Just for a day, why not observe what we actually get out of doing this and stop ourselves, every time we feel like filling our sense of boredom with other people! It is quite amazing to see how much energy this activity demands and how empty we can feel without it. One can always make up for it, the next day!Just for a day, let charity begin at home: We are often frustrated that we cannot do anything to change the world. Some of us might want to do social service or help the poor, but are unable to do so. When one helps someone, the joy is in completely forgetting oneself and offering some form of solace. We might get caught up in wanting to help through formal organisations.Instead, just for 24 hours, why not spend time with family members or neighbours whom one has lost touch with. Experience the joy of just lending a listening ear or going out of one’s comfort zone, to really be with the person with full attention and see what they really need to alleviate their pain or discomfort. There is no obligation to continue it for the next day!Just for a day, stop complaining: There are a million reasons to rant and rave about life in a day. From a newspaper that is not delivered on time to classmates or colleagues who are irksome, we have so many things that bump into our expectations to be happy. These things are going to happen anyway. Why not do what one has to do, ignoring the voice of complaint that rises within us? Try it and you might just discover your own brand of happiness!Experience and resolveThere are numerous such resolutions that you can create and try out for yourself. The idea is to experience the resolution immediately and see how it really comes alive in your own life. If you are really adventurous, you might even observe your resolution not for a day, but merely from one breath to the next!For those of us who enjoy making long lists of resolutions, let us love that process too! However, let us be gentle and forgive ourselves if we feel we have not achieved them. We can go back, revisit those lists and take it one day at a time.To all readers, here’s wishing you a bright day of resolutions ahead!If this article spoke to you or if you would like to share your resolutions for a day idea, do write to: lifeplus590@gmail.com