http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Thiruvananthapuram/Kaaval-Kannu-for-street-watch/article14020751.ece

The State police have roped in the local trading community to enhance the security camera surveillance of public spaces in Kerala.Inspector General of Police, Thiruvananthapuram Range, Manoj Abraham, says a prominent traders’ organisation has agreed to provide security camera cover for municipal areas in front of the establishments run by its members across the State.The cameras will be set up to police specifications and linked to local station houses. The devices will be tamper-proof with night vision capability.The police have christened the scheme Project Kaaval Kannu (watchful eye). State Police Chief T.P. Sen Kumar will soon launch the scheme on a pilot basis at Kilimanoor in Thiruvananthapuram.The police hope that the expansive security camera network would work as a “force multiplier.”It would, arguably, enhance their capability to detect and apprehend criminals quickly.Sense of securityImportantly, they feel that the cameras will instil a sense of security among citizens, chiefly women and children travelling alone. Potential offenders will perceive a higher risk of being caught and deterred. The police will be able to optimize their street-level manpower deployment and project the law enforcement’s presence afar at minimal cost.A senior police officer, who regularly analyzes crime incident patterns in the State, says grievous offences such as rape, kidnapping, abduction, and robbery are seldom reported in public places in Kerala. Offences such as chain snatching, burglary, auto theft, pickpocketing, drug peddling, and harassment of women, drunkenness, rash driving, road accidents, pedestrian causalities, and littering have shown an upward trend. Such crimes degrade the quality of life of citizens.The cameras by themselves were no one-stop solution to crime reduction. However, combined with other policing routines, such as identifying crime hotspots through local intelligence collection, they would give a much needed fillip to the law enforcement. Surveillance cameras have helped identify vehicles involved in hit-and-run cases and also perpetrators of mob violence.Control StationThe Home Department proposes to set up a State-level Central Monitoring and Control Station (CMCS) at the Police Headquarters (PHQ) here to remotely monitor the 24-hour security of houses and businesses across the State. Surveillance cameras, burglar and fire alarms, intrusion-detection systems, and movement sensors on these premises would be wirelessly linked to the CMCS. In the event of a security breach, the sensors will automatically route the alarm to the CMCS.Dispatch officers at the CMCS will prioritize the alarm and calibrate the response required.