http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Visakhapatnam/Kabaddi-league-back-in-city/article14026705.ece

The Star Sports Pro Kabaddi League is back in the city after a gap of one year. The third edition of the league would be held at the Port indoor stadium from January 30 which should be a confident booster for Telugu Titans as its starts the league with home ground advantage.Owner of Telugu Titans Srirama Srinivas said the Visakhapatnam Port Trust authorities have readily accepted to have the league at the stadium and Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu was keen to have the PKL leg in Visakhapatnam once again. Mr. Srinivas hoped the league would once again pull large crowds of spectators.Thanks to the PKL and the way its matches are being played now with psychedelic lights and other attractions, kabaddi suddenly created interest in urban areas also. Mr. Srinivas, who addressed a press conference along with Dronacharya award winner E. Prasada Rao, team coach Ramesh Bendegare and captain and star-attraction of the game Rahul Chaudhari, and VFI vice-president S. Kodandaramiah, said the team has a lot of youngsters and the experienced Dharmaraj Cheralathan, who came into the team this season would be of great advantage.After the Services were allowed to field its players in the PKL, and each team was allotted two players, Telugu Titans was given Sanju and Virender.Rahul and Sukesh Hegde of the Titans and players of other PKL teams who are members of the Indian team for the SAF Games with do the national duty from February 11 to 15.Mr. Prasada Rao, who is also technical director of PKL, said the game would see great development in future. The goal of PKL is to make kabaddi as one of the games in the 2024 Olympics. The game is being spread to several countries and Africa is being concentrated as it is being played in a few countries only.A Pro Kabaddi League for women is also being planned. Many women officials are being put on duty for the PKL. Proposals are being made to have two leagues for men during a year, Mr. Prasada Rao said.The third edition of the league would be held at the Port indoor stadium from Saturday