http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Kakinada-finds-place-on-first-list-of-20-Smart-Cities/article14026355.ece

Kakinada has found place on the first list of 20 Smart Cities announced on Thursday afternoon by Union Minister Venkaiah Naidu. “Today marks a historic landmark in the annals of urban development, as we get to know the first list of Smart Cities, in which Vizag and Kakinada got place,” Mr. Naidu said.These 20 smart cities will get funds first to kick-start their development process. With a per city allocation of Rs. 100 crore for each of the five years of the mission period, the Central assistance to the mission is around Rs. 50,000 crore.“We have submitted the proposals with rapid speed by working round the clock with the support of all officials in the district,” East Godavari Collector H. Arun Kumar said.On the selection of Kakinada, Member of Parliament Thota Narasimham thanked the Union Minister and congratulated the District Collector and his team for their effort. Kakinada city and Rural MLAs Vanamadi Venkateswara Rao, Pilli Anantha Lakshi and Superintendent of Police Ravi Prakash, along with Confederation of Real Estate Developers Associations of India (CREDAI ) Kakinada branch chairman G.V.S.T. Naidu and vice-president N.S. Balaram, congratulated the Collector and his team.The cities will be developed to have basic infrastructure such as assured water and power supply, sanitation and solid waste management, efficient urban mobility and public transport, IT connectivity, e-governance and citizen participation. A total of 100 smart cities have been planned across the country.The other development projects include road network created or refurbished not only for public transport, but also for pedestrians and cyclists and necessary administrative services that are offered within walking or cycling distance.Preserving and developing open spaces like parks, playgrounds, and recreational spaces in order to enhance the quality of life of citizens, formation of e-groups to obtain feedback from people and use of online monitoring of various programmes with the aid of cyber tour of worksites are the other projects that will form part of Smart City development.Giving an identity to the city - based on its main economic activity, such as local cuisine, health, education, arts and craft, culture, sports, textile and dairy development are other important areas of focus.