http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Thiruvananthapuram/Kanam-hints-at-possible-review-of-liquor-policy/article14020779.ece

Communist Party of India (CPI) State secretary Kanam Rajendran has hinted at the possibility of the Opposition Left Democratic Front (LDF) reviewing the present liquor policy in the event of winning in the Assembly elections.Replying to questions at a news conference here on Monday, Mr. Rajendran said the liquor policy was reviewed every year. If elected to power, the LDF would think hard about the liquor policy before making any announcement.The claim of KPCC president V.M. Sudheeran and Excise Minister K. Babu that the UDF’s liquor policy had brought down consumption was wrong. It had helped only to shift drinking to homes. The impact of the liquor policy on homes, children and women should be studied closely. His party and the LDF were all for abstinence and not prohibition, the CPI leader said.Mr. Rajendran said his Janakeeya Yatra would be flagged off by CPI general secretary K. Sudhakar Reddy at Hosangadi in Kasaragod on Wednesday. The Yatra would seek to highlight the CPI stand on questions of development and governance and expose the corrupt deeds of the Oommen Chandy government. The Yatra would be followed by a two-day national seminar in the State capital on the theme ‘Another Kerala is possible.’In a statement issued later in the day, Mr. Rajendran sought to know why the Chief Minister was hesitating to accept Mr. Babu’s resignation when he took just two hours to accept former Finance Minister K.M. Mani’s resignation. Mr. Babu had claimed that he had resigned on moral grounds. If so, why was the Chief Minister displaying similar moral stance?The Chief Minister’s stand seemed to vindicate Mr. Mani’s complaint that two different yardsticks were being applied to him and Mr. Babu. The Kerala High Court’s rejection of the appeal filed by the government against the Vigilance Court verdict was a blow to the Chief Minister’s attempts to save Mr. Babu, the CPI State secretary said.