http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/chennai/Karunanidhi-appears-in-court/article14005554.ece

Former Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu and DMK president M. Karunanidhi on Monday appeared before a sessions court in Chennai in connection with a criminal defamation case moved against him by Chief Minister Jayalalithaa.Recording the appearance of Mr. Karunanidhi, Principal Sessions judge N. Authinathan adjourned the case to March 10 for further hearing.On November 24, the City Public Prosecutor M.L. Jegan on behalf of the Chief Minister moved a defamation charge against Mr. Karunanidhi and S. Selvam, editor of the DMK mouthpiece ‘Murasoli’. The allegation was that the DMK leader published an article in ‘Murasoli’ dated November 21, criticising the “achievements” of the AIADMK government over the last four years. The applicant alleged that the contents of the report were defamatory per se.At around 10.15 am when Mr. Karunanidhi arrived in the court hall in the Madras High Court premises, it was already packed with hundreds of DMK cadre and advocates. He was accompanied by M.K. Stalin, Kanimozhi, Dayanidhi Maran, T.R. Balu, Duraimurugan and other frontline DMK leaders.Addressing the media later, Mr. Karunanidhi said, “Justice will prevail and people should unite behind justice.”Pointing out a recent observation of the apex court he added,“The Supreme Court itself has observed that the government is not proceeding on the right track by charging the critics with defamation. So I have nothing more to say.”Answering a question whether he would demand that the State government take back all defamation cases moved against journalists, he said, “My decision to appear before the court itself denotes that I am for such a demand.”Mr. Selvam, who was also a party to the case, did not appear on Monday.Instead, he moved a memo for dispensing with his appearance through his lawyer, which was accepted by the court.Allegation against him is that he criticised AIADMK government in his newspaper article