http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/KCM-gets-ready-to-take-major-decisions/article14000877.ece

The Kerala Congress (M), which has seen itself on the back foot following the unsavoury incidents that led to the unceremonious exit of its leader K.M. Mani from the State Cabinet, is all set to launch a major drive, not only to revitalise the befuddled party machinery but also to ready it for taking major decisions in the run-up to the ensuing Assembly elections.On Monday, Jose K. Mani, MP, Mr. Mani’s son and heir apparent, will launch an indefinite fast at Thirunakkara Maidan demanding concrete steps from both the State and Central governments to find a lasting solution to the continuing farm crisis in Kerala. Though the fast will be staged at Kottayam, party leaders from across the State will participate in it. The KC(M) has organised simultaneous fast by party units and local units of its feeder organisations at the district and taluk levels. According to insiders, the party will focus its pre-election campaign in nearly 50 Assembly segments where it has a presence.Main plankWhile the party has decided upon farm crisis as the main plank for campaign in the Assembly election, the leadership has its fingers crossed regarding the future plans of the party. Even if Mr. Mani comes out clean in the bar licensing bribery case, the party is in two minds as to whether he should rejoin the Cabinet or not.There is a feeling that rejoining the Cabinet would tie the party to the present dispensation tightly, but being out of the Cabinet would provide Mr. Mani with more options. Party leaders point out that the Congress-KC(M) relations have touched the nadir. The Congress leadership has not forgotten the way Mr. Mani co-opted the Joseph faction without its concurrence in 2010 and Mr. Mani has not forgiven the way the Congress leadership weaned away Mr. Joseph during the recent resignation drama.Mr. Mani is one leader who knows well that in coalition politics partners need not always be friends. The leaders expect hard bargaining from the Congress in the seat-sharing drills and believe a little distance will augur well for them during the exercise. However, his real test is to carry the entire party along with him in the struggle with the Congress since the still existing faultiness within his party were hacked open by the Congress during Mr. Mani’s resignation when it successfully kept Mr. Joseph tied to his Cabinet berth.