http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/KCR-orders-9-hour-power-supply-to-agriculture/article13976938.ece

Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Friday asked power utilities to take steps to supply nine-hour supply to agriculture sector during day time from June and uninterrupted supply to other sectors without setting timeframe.The decision of the government has raised an issue how it will manage both peak and non-peak hour power demand.The peak hour supply is a challenge because the demand for agriculture overlaps with other sectors, including industrial, commercial and domestic, from 6 AM to 9 PM when there was maximum demand.The non-peak hour demand management became critical as power was contracted for 24 x 7 supply but only nine hours in day was met. What about supply at night when there was not much demand? Even if the supply was shut down at night, the government was bound to pay for the contracted power, sources said. They added that there were, however, ways to overcome the problem.Presently, the government resorted to dispersed supply to agriculture for 20 hours in a day by categorising the consumers into groups and supplying them power in different spells. They were divided into two to four groups and given in as many spells depending upon the size of the consumers.Sources also said one of the ways to overcome the problem of night time management was to promote solar power in a big way.The officials who met the Chief Minister at Friday’s meeting when he asked them to ensure nine-hour power supply for agriculture expressed confidence that 800 MW of solar power would be available in the State by April. An additional 2,000 MW of solar power would be available by the year-end. Telangana State Generation Corporation was working with the objective to get an additional 4,600 MW from all sources by the year-end. The present installed capacity was 4,445 MW, a release said later.Generation corporation Chairman and Managing Director D. Prabhakar Rao and Director (Projects) Radhakrishna were among those present.Sources added that nine-hour day time supply was possible with base-load thermal plants alone because generation by hydel and gas stations was not dependable when the contracted load as in Telangana was huge.The base-load plants operated continuously and maintained a uniform generation. It required a few hours to either stop or restart generation from the plants. On the contrary, the same was done instantly in hydel stations. Hence, a lot of planning went into operation of the plants.