http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/KCR-promises-to-solve-ryots%E2%80%99-woes/article13995872.ece

Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao went down the memory lane as he laid foundation stone for the construction of Zilla Parishad High School at Dubbak in the district where he studied, on Monday.The constituency is represented by TRS party legislator S. Ramalinga Reddy.Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao recalled his experience at the school. He also interacted with his old friends. “The high school will be constructed at a cost of Rs. 4.5 crore. I am sanctioning funds to junior college as well. The total funding for both the institutions will be Rs.10 crore,” announced Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao while addressing a review meeting here after laying the stone for the high school and 33 KV power station.In the review meeting, he enquired about the progress of Mission Kakatiya, Mission Bhagiratha, and land acquisition for irrigation projects. While directing the officials to take steps for the supply of drinking water for every household, the Chief Minister said that he would visit Dubbak again on April 30 and commence Mission Bhagiratha works.“The government is committed to bring Godavari water and supply irrigation to farmers. We will take all steps that those losing land in the construction of Mallanna Sagar will not adversely affect. Please do not prevent land acquisition. If you have any problems, meet me directly. I will address your problems,” he assured the farmers, who were agitating for higher compensation for the past few weeks.Referring to Mission Kakatiya works, Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao said that silt was removed from tanks and officials should take steps to transport that to farmers’ lands. The Chief Minister also announced Rs. 25 crore for the development Dubbak Nagara Panchayat, Rs. 5 crore for the construction of town hall and 2,500 double bedroom houses.He also said that Rs. 50 lakh for mandal headquarters and Rs. 25 lakh for village panchayats for 108 villages in Dubbak constituency would be sanctioned.The Chief Minister also sanctioned Rs. 4.86 crore for beautification of Ramasamudram tank.Irrigation Minister T. Harish Rao, Deputy Speaker M. Padma Devender Reddy, legislator S. Ramalinga Reddy, MP K. Prabhakar Reddy and others participated in the meeting.Earlier, he visited Erravalli and Narsannapet and also laid foundation stone for the check-dam at Kudavelli Vagu at a cost of Rs. 28.8 crore.