http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/KCR-announces-Special-Development-Authority-for-Warangal/article13984437.ece

The Telangana State Government proposes to set up a `Special Development Authority’ for Warangal District development and allocate Rs.300 crore from budget every year, said Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao here on Wednesday.Summing up his three-day visit and series of review meetings, the Chief Minister said that an integrated textile park - one of its kind in the country, would be set up in the district shortly for which Rs.100 crore was sanctioned. About 3,000 acres of land would be acquired. Soon the district will have Health University, Tribal University, veterinary and agricultural colleges.A multi-speciality hospital would be constructed on the KMC premises while the MGM Hospital would be turned into a centre for woman and child care institution.The district headquarters will have a multi-storeyed collectorate building, a police commissionerate building on DIG bunglow campus and another integrated building for Greater Warangal Municipal Corporation.“We want to construct a series of buildings replacing the old ones. All old school buildings will be demolished to construct new ones. “In the next three years, it has been decided to spend Rs. 3,000 crores in Warangal as it is the biggest place after the state capital Hyderabad in Telangana State,” Mr. KCR said.An own building for music college, a sprawling park on 250 acres, underground drainage for tri-cities were among other sops announced by the Chief Minister.“We reviewed all schemes. The Mission Bhagirath will be expedited and from April 30, whole of the Jangaon Assembly constituency, three mandals each in Station Ghanpur and Palakurthy constituencies will get drinking water supply,” he explained.On irrigation, the state government plans to construct a barrage across the river Godavari to augment the Devadula Project. The water from Devadula would be filled in Rammappa, Laknavaram and Bhim Ghanpur tanks to ensure irrigation water throughout the year. The Mid Manair project will be taken up soon and repairs to Kakatiya canal will be completed this year.“Warangal is poorly developed place. We will engage a private consultant to give us a masterplan at the earliest. In February, I will come again to lay foundation to as many as I have announced today such as Health University and Outer Ring Road,” Mr. KCR said.