http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Keeping-that-goal-alive/article14003240.ece

The football development model of Germany is a famed one. It particularly became a talking point around the world when the country won the 2014 FIFA World Cup.Way back in 2000, Germany suffered the ignominy of finishing bottom in its group at the Euros after which it was forced into an overhaul of the entire set-up. The fruits are here for everyone to see – a generation of gifted young players who keep the flag flying high.What happens to those who don’t make the cut? The sporting world showcases only the victors. But the stories of those players, undoubtedly talented, but did not want to pursue football for various reasons, are equally important too. This is what the German Ambassador’s Tour aims to achieve.On a four-city tour to India, the German Football Association’s National Student team touched down in the city and played a match against Ozone FC Bengaluru. It comprised professional and semi-professional footballers who play mostly in the fourth division but also study at various German universities.“In India, compared to anywhere else in the world, it’s studies first and everything else, if there is something, it’s for later,” observes Arunava Chaudhuri, an Indian football expert and consultant based in Germany. “A cultural shift needs to happen in the society. Here it’s about numbers and you always have to use your elbow to get somewhere in life. That’s a big problem.”“In Germany, for the kids with the German youth development system, can both play football and playing football and want to be professional footballers, they can continue their studies. One has to do the High School finals. So there is minimum schooling and it gives you the option of what you want to do later in life. For example our captain -- Steffen Wohlfarth -- played for FC Ingolstadt, which won promotion to the Bundesliga (German top division) this year. He is at the end of his career and has realised he needs to do something else now. He might not become a top manager. Some of these boys have looked at such alternatives.”“Take Jonas Ermes, the goal keeper. He was part of the 2009 German under-17 side which won the Euros.It had Mario Goetze (scorer of the winning goal in the 2014 World Cup final) in the squad. But some of these boys have decided against being footballers anymore. They are taking up studies and moving into second careers.”In existence for close to half a Century, the tour has been to different countries in South America, Africa, Caribbean islands and so on. This is its first visit to Asia.“There is a tie-up between the German FA and the All-India Football Federation,” Arunava said. “Nicolai Adam (a former Development Advisor to the German FA) is the Indian coach for the youth World Cup. This is on the football front.”“Even the Indian Prime Minsiter, Mr. Modi and Ms. Merkel, the Chancellor of Germany, have met last year. So the relationship between the two countries is getting stronger.”Arunava hopes this German model can help improve a thing or two in India. “The only one whom I am certain about having a degree is Abhishek Yadav (Mumbai FC),” he said.“I don’t know anybody else. That is the problem. Schooling and football needs to be integrated. That’s why this is a special team and the players are called the ambassadors of Germany and German football.”