http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/Keen-fight-on-for-ticket-to-Hebbal/article13998613.ece

A keen contest seems to be on in the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party for ticket to contest the byelection to the high-profile Hebbal Assembly constituency, scheduled for February 13.Among those vying for ticket are three Congress MLCs — R.V. Venkatesh, H.M. Revanna and Byrathi S. Suresh, and Opposition BJP’s MLC Y.A. Narayanaswamy. The byelection has to be held following the death of BJP MLA for Hebbal R. Jagadish Kumar on November 23, 2015.Mr. Revanna, former Sericulture Minister, and Mr. Suresh belong to the Kuruba community and are said to be close to Chief Minister Siddaramaiah. Mr. Revanna was denied ticket in the 2013 Assembly elections from the constituency, but in 2008, he had lost to BJP’s Katta Subramanya Naidu by a margin of just 4,951 votes.Mr. Revanna, who was elected to the Legislative Council on July 1, 2014, has another four years to complete the term, yet sources said he was keen to contest and become an MLA.Mr. Venkatesh belongs to the Balija community and his Council term is scheduled to end on June 14, 2016. The term of Mr. Suresh, who was elected to the Council as an Independent in 2012 and is associated with the Congress after Mr. Siddaramaiah became the Chief Minister, would end on June 17, 2018.Other Congress leaders aspiring to contest in the constituency, which has a large Vokklaiga and Muslim population, are State Youth Congress president Rizwan Arshad, the former Union Railway Minister Jaffer Sharief’s grandson Rahman Sharief, and KPCC member Ravishankara Shetty, according to sources in the party.The Congress is expected to announce the official candidate next week.In the 2013 elections, Jagadish Kumar, close aide of Mr. Naidu, defeated C.K. Abdul Rahman Sharief (Congress) by a margin of 5,136 votes.The BJP is likely to field Mr. Narayanaswamy, who was elected to the Council from Karnataka South-East Teachers constituency in 2012.The former Labour Minister B.N. Bache Gowda, Mr. Naidu and BJP leader R. Ashok’s relative A. Ravi are also vying for ticket, according to party sources.JD(S)In the Janata Dal (Secular), Bengaluru JD(S) Youth wing president H.M. Ramesh Gowda and local leader Hanumanthe Gowda are lobbying for ticket, according to sources.Eight municipal wards come under the jurisdiction of the Hebbal constituency. Of them, the BJP has a stronghold over four while the JD(S) and the Congress have control over two wards each.