http://www.thehindu.com/features/education/careers/Keep-the-past-protect-the-future/article14017668.ece

Every student’s first thought when opening a history textbook is “Why do we have to now learn about what someone did hundreds of years ago. If only the watermelon had fallen on Newton’s head instead of the apple!” Well, there is method to the madness that we call the “syllabus.”“History gives me confidence, it’s no longer about memorising dates and blurting it out on to the paper,” says Haritha, who is currently pursuing history at Lady Shri Ram College, Delhi.A key aspect of history is that it is constantly created. It is not just confined to the past and the dead. In fact, it can be divided into three segments: Ancient, Medieval and Modern history. When women got the right to vote they made history, when we placed a man on the moon and created a mission to Mars were making history. The next time someone asks if you know about the Chennai Floods you can scoff and say “Know it? I survived it!”From the burial mask of King Tutankhamun to the hashtag in Instagram, history is everywhere! Then why don’t we want to study it?“There are students who want to pursue history but there is a lack of advertisement. Students are so fed up with memorising dates in school that they run away from it. There is a greater focus on kings and queens, and the history of society is being ignored.” Says Dr. Anita Rane-Kothare Head, Ancient Indian Culture at St Xavier’s College, Mumbai.All of us want a good job, lots of money and prospects and, well, a degree in history just doesn’t seem to cut it! You couldn’t be further away from the truth. Politicians, educators, writers and editors also have a background in history. Research, management and business organisations also employ history graduates. And the most famous field that brought to light King Tutankhamun, the terracotta army of China and, of course, the Indus Valley civilisation, is Archaeology.Travel the world Studying history can give you the opportunity to travel the world in search of new and exciting places, live in harsh conditions and learn about cultures that you never knew existed. Preserving natural monuments, man-made monuments and various cultural practices also form an important part of a historian’s job. A degree in history also gives a competitive edge in the civil services examination. Hence, in north India, there is a great demand for history degrees.Maybe you do not want to trek through the Amazon jungle or wade through the Saharan desert — no fear! There are courses such as cultural anthropology, linguistics, tourism and heritage management and cataloguing that can be done from the confines of the museum. You can relive and teach history every day! After all, many who pursue history land jobs as lecturers and teachers.On the job front, Archaeological Survey of India, universities and several organisations hire history graduates all the time. The prospects abroad are also monumental. From cataloguing to game creating, history has never been more exciting. Historians catalogue tons of information, read obscure documents and follow dangerous leads. They are the detectives of the past who help protect the future.“Every student must know their history and culture. It is essential for survival,” says Dr. P.D. Balaji, Professor and Head, Department of Ancient History and Archaeology. University of Madras.So the next time you play Age of Empires, Assassins Creed or read Horrible Histories, you have a historian to thank. Without them the world wars would be a faint memory and the Opium Wars could be confused for a band name.The writer is pursuing B.Sc. Visual Communication at Ethiraj College for Women, Chennai. Email: nehabastian@yahoo.co.in