http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Visakhapatnam/Keeping-traditions-alive/article14003024.ece

It was a delight to see men and women in traditional attire participating in the Sankranti celebrations at Gondupalem village of K. Kotapadu mandal in the district on Saturday.A few men folk were seen giving tips on colour combinations and patterns to the women participating in the ‘Muggula poti’. Some of the male family members even helped the women in drawing the outlines and filling the colours.Coloured salt crystals enhanced the beauty of ‘muggulu’. The contestants and their family members had to stand guard around their works as the participants were walking all around and there was a danger of their works being disturbed even before they were judged.The event was organised by Sanghamitra Rural Development Society (SRDS), an NGO of K. Kotapadu, in a bid to create awareness among the younger generations on the need to keep the rich rural traditions alive for the benefit of posterity.‘Haridasulu’, ‘Budabukkala vallu’, ‘Bhogi matalu’, ‘Kolatam’… the open ground in front of the Gondupalem Panchayat was full of men, women and children of different age groups. The men of the village settled in different parts of the country in various professions like teachers, doctors and policemen and some of them who had gone abroad.Men in ‘panchelu’ lit the ‘Bhogi mantalu’ and two cocks were made to face each other in a symbolic cockfight. Earlier, a 6-km marathon was organised in two different categories from Gondupalem to K. Kotapadu and back.Prize winnersCh. Sandi, Lakshmi and Hema won the first, second and third prizes respectively in the rangoli competition. In the marathon (20-30 age group): Y. Dandu (a PET), V. Venkata Rao (a research scholar in Bengaluru) and V. Kishore (a B.Sc. student) won the first, second and third prizes respectively. In the above 30 age group: M. Ramana (45), E. Suryanarayana (45) and D. Suryanarayana, an RTC conductor won the first, second and third prizes respectively.“We want the younger generation to know and respect our rich rural traditions. Many of the rural art forms and traditions have been passed down over the generations and they need to be protected,” SRDS president Bandaru Ramachandra Rao said.SRDS secretary B. Mangapathi Rao, member Ramana Murthy and members of Udyoga Mitra Mandali of Gondupalem were present.