http://www.thehindu.com/sport/cricket/Keep-improving-%E2%80%94-the-Ashwin-mantra/article14025204.ece

At the start of the last Australian summer, R. Ashwin was dropped, rather surprisingly, for the first Test in Adelaide. A year on, he returned to Australia as the world’s top-ranked Test bowler, having destroyed South Africa back home. However, a combination of factors — his own performance, the struggles of other bowlers, and the need to find a balanced eleven — meant he was omitted from the side that played the last three ODIs of the VB Series.On Tuesday, he was restored to the line-up, coincidentally in Adelaide, where he played an important role in fashioning India’s win.“It’s not in my hands to take decisions,” he said here on Thursday. “If I’m not playing, I’m not playing. But if I need to continue playing, I need to keep improving. Since I was not playing, I went and practised harder, and when the chance came I wanted to do better. The reason I didn’t play was that I didn’t win a game for India. If I had won, I would have played, as simple as that.”Ashwin admitted he had ‘miscalculated’ at the start of the ODI series. “I came in with a lot of confidence in Perth. I was confident of beating the batsmen in flight. What happens is sometimes you just miscalculate. The straight boundaries were pretty short, so there is a very fine line between trying and being smart and trying and being a little foolish. They took me on, which I was happy with because I thought I could get them out. I did end up getting a couple of wickets in the second spell as well,” he said.“In Brisbane, it was a little more calculated because we wanted to restrict them as much as possible and it had to be a defensive role. The fact that I went for 70 (68) runs and then went for 60 runs — I had to sit out. And it’s fair enough because you have to play the right combination.”Licence to killAustralia has spoken of its batsmen having the licence to try and hit spinners for six with the turn (right-handers against off-spinners, etc.). When this was put to Ashwin, his response was less than cheerful. “I didn’t know they had a licence,” he said. “But if they have a licence, I have a licence to pick up wickets too. And it’s not like their off-spinner has gone very kindly, he’s gone for 80 runs in all the games. That’s the way the series is. It’s not about an off-spinner; everybody has gone for runs.”He had been watching the Big Bash League to look for methods of success in Australia, Ashwin revealed. “In India, a single is as good as a dot ball, but here a two is as good as a dot ball. I have continuously watched the Big Bash and tried and figured out how the spinners have gone about things. There is a trend and pattern to how cricket is being played in every part of the world, so it’s very important to assess that and try and gauge it,” he said.