http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/Keeping-an-eye-on-the-police/article14019586.ece

The ambitious Public Eye app – meant to enlist citizens in the fight against traffic violations – seems to have turned the spotlight on the police itself.Over the past week, social network sites of the Bengaluru Traffic Police, where violations are often posted by netizens, have got reports of more than 35 violations by the men in white and khaki. The majority seemed to be aimed at policemen hitching a ride without a helmet (most pillion, some even the riders), or talking on the phone while riding and one of a policeman urinating in front of a board that says ‘urinating here is prohibited’ (for which, the BTP responded by saying an awareness campaign will be launched to sort out ‘behavioural’ issues).“Our Bangalore police insist the rules and regulations on public but they are not following it (sic),” says a citizen along with a picture of two traffic cops on a motorcycle that captures two violations: the rider talking on the phone, while the pillion rider s not wearing a helmet.Much of the derision against the traffic police began after they began enforcing the rule of helmets for pillion riders.While the police have been given leeway in emergencies, officers said most of the violations do not reflect emergencies or even personnel on duty.M.G. Nagendra Kumar, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Command Centre, says that the violations by the police have been on the rise. “No matter who is behind the violation, we have booked cases and ensured that policemen pay Rs. 100 as fine. We have sent a notice to all traffic policemen to wear helmets even while sitting pillion. The issue has almost been solved,” he said.M.A. Saleem, Additional Commissioner of Police (Traffic), welcomed public scrutiny and said violations will be automatically booked. “It isn’t just traffic violations. In the past six months, 33 policemen have been suspended, many for harassment and bribery that have been caught on camera by citizens. The traffic police are a punitive organisation and there cannot be leeway for our officers,” he said.Are helmets of traffic police ISI certified? Traffic police insist on ISI-certified helmets or full-face helmets for motorists, but the one they wear covers just the scalp with two flaps over the ears.The topic is trending on social media, which has numerous pictures of violations by police personnel.Apart from the legality of the helmets, one doctor at HOSMAT hospital had written to the traffic police after two policemen came for treatment for broken jaws. “There are cases of policemen coming to us with facial injuries and broken jaws despite wearing helmets,” she said. The response from the traffic police was a simple, “thank you for your concern”.M.A. Saleem, Additional Commissioner of Police (Traffic), said new ISI-marked helmets had been procured for all traffic policemen over the past year. “Some of them might not be wearing them, but we have directed all of them to do so,” he said.Public Eye app online since March 2014More than 33,000 downloads so farMore than 11,000 complaints uploadedComplaints are registered on Facebook and Twitter handle of Bangalore Traffic PoliceOver 35 complaints of police and traffic police violating laws since January 19