http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/KEK-calls-for-creating-awareness-on-road-safety-among-students/article14026338.ece

Deputy Chief Minister K.E. Krishnamurthy on Thursday expressed concern over rise in fatal road accidents and suicides despite advances in technology.Speaking at the valedictory of the 27th National Road Safety Week celebrations in Kurnool, Mr. Krishnamurthy said that people purchase expensive mobile phones, but hesitate to buy a helmet that costs a few hundred rupees.Noting that one fatal road accident was being reported every three minutes and that 626 persons died in 2015, he recalled the death of Allagadda MLA Sobha Nagi Reddy, the sister of Kurnool MLA S.V. Mohan Reddy, in a road accident in the district.Mr. Krishnamurthy said most of the fatal accidents take place on the national and State highways rather than on bypass or internal roads.Stating that the district had 3,802-km-long roads under various departments, Mr. Krishnamurthy asked Deputy Transport Commissioner Meera Prasad as to why officials of the NHAI, R&B, and police were not involved in the safety week celebrations.Stating that Australia and a few other countries were restricting the number of cars being used and encouraging use of bicycles, the Deputy Chief Minister told officials to hold meetings in colleges and spread awareness among students.The role of drivers was vital as they were the custodians of the lives of passengers, he said.‘Check wine shops along highways’A.P. Legislative Council Chairman A. Chakrapani urged the government to initiate steps to check wine shops along the highways to avoid fatal accidents because of drunken driving, and said that one cannot get tea and water on the highways, but wine shops were seen everywhere.High school students too were widely using cellphones and motorcycles, and even VIPs and their drivers were not using seat belts while driving, he said, and called for a change in habits to make journeys safer.Mr. Chakrapani said he was surprised to find persons getting a driving licence overnight and told Transport Department officials to check the skill of the driver before issuing a licence.Noticing the presence of a large number of schoolchildren in the meeting, he said the practice of overloading school buses must also be checked.The bad state of roads and highways on the Kadapa-Kurnool route caused many fatal accidents, ZP chairman M. Rajasekhar Goud said.Mr. Mohan Reddy wanted stringent punishment to violators of road safety rules like in the U.S. He wanted establishment of health centres and blood banks along the highways and use of technology to curb accidents.Panyam MLA G. Charitha Reddy wanted removal of belt shops along the highways.Mr. Meera Prasad said road accidents were leading to nearly one lakh deaths in the country every year and 65 per cent of fatalities could be avoided with the use of helmets.Earlier, Mr. Krishnamurthy and Mr. Chakrapani signed a banner and watched a photo exhibition on road accidents.‘Helmets, seat belts compulsory’Road Transport Officer (RTO) Ms. Siri Anand has said awareness campaign on road safety and use of helmets and seat belts would continue in all colleges and schools.Addressing the valedictory function of the Road Safety Week at the RTO office here, Ms. Anand stressed the need for more awareness, particularly in rural areas.She called upon people, particularly the student community, to follow traffic rules to avoid accidents. She also made it clear that wearing helmets and seat belts were compulsory.