http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Khasakinte-Ithihasam-among-plays-to-be-staged/article13993448.ece

Following are the plays, which will be staged on Monday:Baling: ( Five Arts Centre, Malaysia- 100 minutes) at Thoppil Bhasi Black Box. (1 p.m. & 6 p.m.)On 28 December, 1955, a small schoolroom in northern Malaya became a historic site where the Baling Talks, one of the most important moments in the 20th Century Southeast Asian history and politics, took place. The talks, where various visions on building a nation were imagined, discussed and discarded, were a unique attempt to bring peace in the Malayan peninsula devastated by war. Reconstructing this event based on publicly available transcripts, director Mark Teh looks at questions on nation formation with performer-researchers who share political views similar and contrasting to that of the participants of the Baling Talks.Khasakinte Ithihasam: (By KMK Smaraka Kalasamithi, Kerala 205 minutes) at Corporation Stadium (7 p.m.)Inspired by O.V. Vijayan’s ‘Khasakinte Ithihasam,’ the play depicts the life and myth of the legendary land Khasak. The play is nothing but the life itself, depicting the encounters one has in Khasak in a magical and philosophical frame. Originating in the earth, playing with fire and ending in rain, the audience participates and experiences the pleasures and tragedies that engulf its protagonist, Ravi. Director Deepan Sivaraman also perfectly knits the mythical ritualistic element of Theyyam into this production.Mariyamma: (By Playwrights’ Theatre, Kerala, 90 minutes) at K.T. Mohammed Regional Theatre (4 p.m.)Written in 1878, ‘Mariyamma Natakam’ by Kocheeppan Tharakan announces the commencement of the modern era in Malayalam theatre. This was stylistically innovative and departed from the then existing theatre genre in Kerala that was heavily influenced by Sanskrit plays. The play directed by Sreenath Nair is also the first social satire, critiquing the family life and the secondary status of daughters-in-law of Syrian Christian families of Kerala. Having slipped into obscurity in the last century, the play has only now been restored in 2015.