http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Kharge-criticises-Rail-Vikas-Nigam-officials-for-delay-in-projects/article13987406.ece

Leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha M. Mallikarjun Kharge on Thursday took to task Railway officials, particularly those from Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd. (RVNL), for the delay in the execution of projects in the region.Chairing a vigilance committee meeting to review the progress of Centrally assisted projects here, he said that the projects entrusted to RVNL, including the construction of a railway overbridge in Kalaburagi, doubling and electrification of the Kalaburagi-Solapur line, and others had been delayed due to the indifferent attitude of RVNL.At one stage, an exasperated Mr. Kharge said, “If the delay continues, I will have no other alternative but to sit in a satyagraha in front of RVNL office seeking early completion of these works…the doubling and electrification of the rail line from Guntakal to Solapur will not only help Karnataka, but also Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana and help the trains on the Chennai-Mumbai and Bengaluru-Mumbai sections run faster.” Mr. Kharge said that the projects entrusted to RVNL had been delayed without any sound reason. He said that the construction of the administrative office building of the proposed Gulbarga Railway Divisional headquarters was also entrusted to RVNL and Rs. 5 crore was provided to them for the purpose. But only Rs. 44.86 lakh had been spent. RVNL officials told the meeting that a proposal had been submitted to the Railway Board for taking up construction of facilities at a cost of Rs. 90 crore.Mr. Kharge, who spoke to Railway Board chairman A.K. Mittal to know the status of the proposal for a Railway Division for Kalaburagi, said that the board had cleared it and the file was pending with Railway Minister Suresh Prabhu.Mr. Kharge was also critical of the Central Railway authorities for the inordinate delay in taking up the construction of the second pit line in Kalaburagi Railway Station, a rail underbridge near the railway station and a rail overbridge on the Afzalpur-Kalaburagi Road. He stressed the need for installing a second escalator at the railway station and said that he would take up the issue with the Railway Ministry.