http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/Khandapara-to-be-transformed-into-first-child-friendly-Assembly-constituency/article13976090.ece

Khandapara of Nayagarh district is being envisioned to be transformed into first child-friendly Assembly constituency in Odisha.This project has been taken up in this assembly constituency since Dec 22, 2015 as a joint venture of UNICEF, local district administration and social organisation Youth for Social Development. Legislator of Khandapara, Anubhav Patnaik has also taken active interest in this project. The aim of this project is to make local self-governments in this Assembly constituency accountable to ensure provision of rights of children of the region. Youth activists of the YSD, who have ample experience in working with slum children of Berhampur are providing technical support to increase community participation skills of children as well as to make elected representatives of local bodies conscious about rights of children of their locality. Child rights gram sabha process would be promoted through which adolescents and children would directly meet their panchayat level elected representatives and share views during decision making process on issues that matter children.Five priority sectorsAccording to Bibhu Prasad Sahu of YSD, concept of child friendly constituency is an initiative to allow communities and children within the constituency to proactively engage with their elected representatives and service providers on issues concerning proper growth and development of children. This innovative project aims to cover 40 panchayats and one Notified Area Council (NAC) in region of Khandapara assembly segment. At present five priority sectors have been chosen for pro-active measures. They are reduction of neonatal deaths, reduction in cases of stunting, end of open defecation, cent percent admission of children in schools, protection of children from exploitation and violence.Without coming up with demand for new government programs, this project advocates optimal utilisation of existing resources allocated by State and Central governments under different schemes. This initiative also aims to create a platform for elected representatives for more structured engagement with district administration and grass root implementers during programme implementation. “We feel this project would interest all local leaders as it enables them to connect with their voters on issues that affect the lives of children and their families”, said Mr Sahu. It is hoped that once this project shows up its success all elected representatives under the leadership of local legislator will take collective responsibility to discuss, design, guide and monitor implementation of various programs with active involvement of stakeholders including children in a phased manner.