http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/Kharge-among-those-stuck-as-fog-delays-flights/article13990746.ece

No matter the position or power held, fog and the delays associated with it, seems to be a great leveller.On Saturday morning, as dense fog enveloped Kempegowda International Airport, thousands of passengers had to endure a long wait as nearly 60 flights saw considerable delays all morning. Sitting patiently for over three hours in a flight headed towards Hyderabad and then to Bhubaneshwar was Leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha M. Mallikarjun Kharge.Guruprasad R., a public relations officer for a private university in Odisha who was travelling in the same flight, said the flight took off only at 9.30 a.m. The scheduled take-off was 6.40 a.m. “Mr. Kharge waited patiently and even tried unsuccessfully to sleep. When he found out I was from Kalinga University, he asked me about the education tribal students were receiving,” he said.The three hours, however, saw some drama. In the flight was an anxious man who had travelled overnight from Salem to catch a flight to Hyderabad from Bengaluru. “His wife was about to deliver, and he was rushing to Hyderabad to be with her through childbirth. However, owing to the delays, he was stuck. At 8.30 a.m., he received a message and the pilots announced the good news. The whole plane started to applaud!” said Mr. Guruprasad.DelaysAmong the departures that were affected were nine flights to Delhi and eight flights to Mumbai, apart from flights to Kochi, Mangaluru and even one flight to London. While on average, flights were delayed by nearly two hours, the ensuing congestion after the fog cleared saw the delays continuing till noon.A further 36 flights saw delayed arrivals to the city before noon, while a flight from Chennai was diverted and saw a delay of nearly four hours.According to the India Meteorological Department, fog set in at the airport at 5.42 a.m., and persisted till 8.55 a.m. While the airport has precision approach runway CAT I system installed, intended for a visibility of 550 metres; IMD recorded the minimum visibility of just 50 m. The fall in temperatures — the mercury hovered around 11 degrees C minimum on Friday — is expected to catalyse fog around the airport, which has heavy vegetation. The IMD believes fog will be a constant companion for morning flights till January 13.