http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/Kick-start-a-savings-habit/article13984348.ece

What's tricky about New Year's resolutions is the fact that by this time next month, they typically become a thing of the past. Diets, detox, fitness plans... come February, they all morph into something that initially seemed like a good idea but has been shelved. The flip side is if you haven’t made them yet then by next week you'll probably be thinking ‘What's the point? It’s already the middle of January’.It's never too late to make resolutions, and I am all for making them right through the month of January. That way it's more likely you'll stick with them right through the remainder of the year. From a personal finance point of view, if there is one that is worth making it's saving your money. It doesn't really matter if you are male or female, older or younger, an independent earner or not, if you do not already have a savings habit, it's about time you got started.In general, too many people are focused on spending rather than saving. Don't get me wrong -- it's not like I mock the idea of some retail therapy every now and then. The problem is, many of us live on the assumption that the pay check will keep coming in...whether that's your own paycheck or that of your spouse. I find this especially true of those who do not earn and have always relied on the traditional crutches of parent, spouse and, subsequently, children to take care of all their financial and legal matters.But this is a dangerous path to tread because ignorance leads to fear. All too often, people think of finance as the ‘F-word’ – something to be avoided at all costs. Should they find themselves alone one day -- widowed or divorced, they'll find themselves in a real soup.You might wonder then whether saving money is more essential for dependents rather than independent earners. Truth be told, it is absolutely essential for both. Regardless of who the primary household earner is, a household without savings has shaky foundations, especially as the years go by.If you are a home-maker, then you want to save so that should there come a day in the future that you find yourself alone as described above, then you will have your savings to draw on. If you are a wage-earner then you must be realistic in accepting that it is not likely that you'll be earning a salary for the rest of your life... lovely as that would be. So you absolutely must save for that rainy day. Even if there is another wage earner in your household, say, for example, your spouse, it's a good idea to join forces and increase your savings pool.So where to go with all this? Well, to your local bank for starters. Now is as a good a time as any to check out the variety of savings account options available to you. All banks offer savings accounts — state banks and private sector banks alike. They might offer a few different perks and bonuses and the interest rates might differ slightly from bank to bank but the underlying principles are the same. It is best to compare what the different banks are offering you in terms of savings accounts facilities and then make a decision as to what works best for you.Make it your new year project. You might be surprised at how one project can lead to more.(The writer is a financial journalist and author of ‘Money Smart: The Indian Woman’s Guide to Manging Wealth’)