http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Kidwai-institute-to-get-four-more-LINAC-radiotherapy-units/article13979731.ece

Minister of State for Medical Education Sharanprakash Patil has said that the government has initiated several steps to bring down the waiting period of cancer patients requiring radiation treatment by adding four more high-end linear accelerator (LINAC) radiotherapy units at the Kidwai Memorial Institute of Oncology in Bengaluru and also setting up such units in other cities to help bring down the rush at the Kidwai institute.Talking to The Hindu here on Sunday, Dr. Patil said that the waiting period for radiation therapy at the Kidwai Memorial Institute of Oncology was four weeks. Besides, setting up four more LINAC radiotherapy units at the institute to reduce the waiting period, the government has decided to establish LINAC radiotherapy treatment units in Hubballi, Kalaburagi, Mysuru, Mandya, Raichur and a few other centres.He said that LINAC radiotherapy unit has already been installed in the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) in Hubballi. Soon, it will be formally inaugurated. The work on setting up LINAC radiotherapy unit is in progress in Kalaburagi.Dr. Patil said that a LINAC radiotherapy unit is being set up in the Mandya Institute of Medical Sciences with assistance provided by the Union government.The State government has decided to have two more LINAC units — one in Mysuru and the other in Raichur.He said that the four-high end LINAC radiotherapy units were being established at the Kidwai Memorial Institute of Oncology using funds provided by the Union government after the institute was declared as a State cancer centre.Of the Rs. 120-crore sanctioned for upgrading the institute, Rs. 90 crore would be provided by the Union government and the balance amount will be provided by the State government.The Union government has released Rs. 67 crore, and with the State’s share of funds, tenders have been floated for the purchase of LINAC radiotherapy units and other equipment.Dr. Patil said that the government has decided to install the latest PET Scan facility at the Kidwai institute and Rs. 20 crore has been released for this.There is also a proposal to introduce robotic surgery in the institute shortly.