http://www.thehindu.com/sport/football/Kim-Song-Yong%E2%80%99s-brace-gives-Bengaluru-FC-an-easy-win-over-Lajong/article14018097.ece

Bengaluru FC strolled to a 3-0 victory over Shillong Lajong at the Kanteerava Stadium here on Sunday, and as a result went top of the I-League standings with nine points from three games.The striking duo of C.K. Vineeth and Kim Song Yong combined to great effect, accounting for all three goals to ensure that Bengaluru’s home start was as unfaltering as its away opener this season.The home side had the best possible opening, with Vineeth scoring in the very first minute. Following a defensive error from Lajong, he collected the ball and placed a low shot into the right corner.Lajong could have hit back immediately but Bipin Singh, left unmarked and under virtually no pressure, sent a cross over the bar from a very promising range.Skipper Sunil Chetri, slotting in on the left, did not have his greatest of games, but when on the attack along with Vineeth and Kim he often switched positions to keep the opposition defenders guessing.Midfielder Alwyn George, too, made his intentions clear with a powerful shot from 20 yards and a cheeky back-heel. But neither helped double the lead.On 36 minutes though, Kim scored the second. He headed on a Curtis Osano long ball for Vineeth to square from the right. Alwyn shot the ball straight at the goalie but Kim bundled in the rebound.Had a towering header by John Johnson on the stroke of half-time found the back of the net instead of crashing against the bar it could have been match over for Lajong right then.However, not much time passed before it was done and dusted. Fifteen minutes into the second period, a dummy by Vineeth let Kim through on goal, and the North Korean easily guided it past goalie Vishal Kahit.With eight minutes left, Kim could have had his hat-trick. But he hit the post with a low drive from the right and then missed an easy header off a cross by left-back Lalchuanmawia.“We could have taken more care towards the end,” said Bengaluru coach Ashley Westwood. “We could’ve scored one or two more. But three is good.“The first half was a bit edgy, second half we looked a good side and, in spells, looked pretty expansive knocking the ball around.”Lajong coach Thangboi Singto said: “Conceding the goal in the first minute never helps. It put us back throughout.”The result: Bengaluru FC 3 (Vineeth 1, Kim 36, 60) bt Shillong Lajong 0.