http://www.thehindu.com/features/kids/King-of-all-nuts/article13999381.ece

Long, long ago there was a wise, old man. He was very, very old and people thought he must be more than a 1000 years old. He had grown wise with age and many people came to ask him questions and also beg for favours. He had magical powers too.One day, as was his wont, the wise, old man was receiving visitors when he was surprised to find among them a young man. He beckoned the young man forward and asked him what he wanted.The young man said, “Oh! Wise father, please tell me how I can be of use to others. All I want to do is serve people. How can I do this?”The wise man was impressed by the young man’s request. He pondered over this question for a while. Then, he put out his hand, and from somewhere deep among the things in his little hut he pulled out a small box. It looked quite ordinary, and the young man was puzzled when he saw it.A touch of magicThe wise man gave him the box and said, “This is a magic box. You can use this box to achieve your end. But, there is one condition. Do not open this box until you have reached your house. If you do open it before you reach home, you will be punished.”The young man nodded agreement and accepted the box. However, once he had stepped out of the hut, curiosity got the better of him.“I will take a quick look into the magic box,” he said to himself. “I am sure nothing serious will happen.”So, he opened the box. But, the minute he did that, he felt a change come over him. And before he knew it he was transformed into a coconut palm.He had been punished for his disobedience. However, his wish was fulfilled because, as we know, the coconut tree has many uses.In India, the coconut palm is a common sight. Almost every part of the tree can be used. And it is because of this that it is widely planted in south India. The flesh inside the nut can be eaten, raw or cooked and it is said to be rich in vitamins, minerals and has powerful antioxidants. Coconut milk is popular, especially in the Asian cuisine. The water makes for a refreshing drink. Oil is extracted from the fruit and when used in cooking is said to be good for health as the lauric acid in the oil improves immunity. This oil can be applied to the hair, as well as the body. The shells and husk are popular craft material. Shells are also used to keep stoves alight. The husk is a natural scrubber and coir ropes too can be made from it. The leaves are used to make thatch for roof and fences. Brooms can be made from the leaves. Nowadays, the wood is used to make furniture, besides providing fuel. The flowers are used in traditional medicines.Retold by NIMI KURIAN