http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Mangalore/Kite-festival-at-Panambur-beach-from-today/article14001487.ece

A theme kite ‘save Nethravathi’ will fly high as a two-day international kite festival will begin at Panambur beach from Saturday.Night kite flying will be a special attraction on Saturday. The kites will be flown between 7 p.m. and 8 p.m. with focus lights on them. Lighting a series of over 100 beach lanterns will add colour to the night flying of kites.Hosted by Team Mangalore, a hobby group of kite flyers, and Rotary International District 3180 Zone IV, the kites will be flown between 2.30 p.m. and 8 p.m. on the two days. The theme of the event is ‘one sky, one earth, one family.’The event is expected to attract many spectators. It will play host to about 14 international kite flying clubs and three national kite flying clubs involving 30 participants. Foreign flyers from 13 countries namely France, Germany, Holland/Netherlands, Australia, U.K., Turkey, Kuwait, Italy, Thailand, Nigeria, Cambodia, Singapore and Ukraine will participate.In all, three national teams from Dahanu, Mumbai and Hyderabad will participate. Team Mangalore will also fly their speciality kites like Kathakali, Yaksha, Gajaraja ,Bhoota kola, Garuda, Pushpaka Vimana and new Creation Vibheeshana.The festival is not just about kite flying, but also provides a platform for stage shows and photography thereby facilitating confluence of creative talents rooted in cultural tradition in the local population. There will be cultural programmes in the evening.There is no entry fee to fly kites, no speeches and there will be only fun. It would be an occasion to watch hundreds of colourful kites of various sizes and shapes fluttering in the horizon of Panambur beach, the organisers said.Referring to the objective of organizing the festival, Team Mangalore said that there was an urgent need to bring back the childhood in our children.The vicious circle of school, tuition, mobile and television had curtailed their innocent childhood plays.There was a need to bring them outdoors to feel the joy of being with nature. It was an opportunity for the grown-ups to relive their childhood days too.This is the fifth international kite festival in Mangaluru.