http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/KJP-leader-wants-three-councillors-disqualified/article14002518.ece

A press conference conducted by Padmanabha Prasanna of the Karnataka Janata Party (KJP) here on Saturday witnessed chaotic scenes with a few people, who claimed to be followers of B.S. Yeddyurappa, Shivamogga MP and national vice-president of the Bharatiya Janata Party, allegedly tried to beat him.Addressing a press conference here, Mr. Prasanna said that he had lodged a complaint with the Election Commission, seeking disqualification of three members of Shivamogga City Corporation, who had been elected from the KJP but were now identifying themselves with the BJP. Mr. Prasanna claimed that C.H. Malathesh, Archana Ballekere and Gopalakrishna had got elected from the KJP but supported the BJP during the election for the post of Mayor and Deputy Mayor, even as the party had issued a whip in this regard.Stating that he had lodged a complaint with the Deputy Commissioner, who was also the Election Officer in the district, and also Minister for Home G. Parameshwara, against the three persons, he said that he had sought disqualification of the trio from the membership of the city corporation.Mr. Prasanna alleged that he was getting life threats from the followers of Mr. Yeddyurappa and said that he had lodged complaint with Minister for Home G. Parameshwar in this regard. At this juncture, Santhosh Ballekere, Mr. Malathesh and others, who were said to be followers of Mr. Yeddyurappa, entered the venue of press conference and raised slogans against Mr. Prasanna. They alleged that Mr. Prasanna was trying to defame Mr. Yeddyurappa.Mr. Prasanna immediately called Deputy Superintendent of Police Ram Arasiddi over telephone and requested him to provide proper security. Later, Mr. Arasiddi arrived at the spot and brought the situation under control.Mr. Prasanna also lodged a complaint with Superintendent of Police Ravi Channannanavar in this regard. Mr. Prasanna was later escorted from the city under police security.