http://www.thehindu.com/features/cinema/Kollywood-Pongal-release-race-2016/article14015982.ece

The verdict for the four big films (Rajini Murugan, Kathakali, Thaarai Thappattai and Gethu) that released for Pongal is out. The clear winner among the four is Sivakarthikeyan’s Rajini Murugan.The film is said to have grossed approximately Rs. 18 crores in its four-day opening weekend. The distributor share would be anywhere between Rs. 10 to 12 crore, as the film had an entertainment tax exemption. In his career spanning 9 years, this is Sivakarthikeyan’s highest-ever opening. Today, he is considered by the trade to be among the top five saleable stars in Tamil commercial cinema.The other three releases—Kathakali, Thaarai Thappattai and Gethu— ended up eating into each other’s collections, as they had to share screens and shows. In all film territories across Tamil Nadu, Rajini Murugan was number one. But in the case of the other three films, different areas had different trends depending on the clout of the person who distributed the film in that particular area.Sivakarthikeyan’s film, which was said to be a “time pass fun ride”, garnered positive reviews (mostly word-of-mouth) by all classes of the audience. Rakesh Gowthaman of Vettri in Chromepet said, “By Thursday evening, the trend was clear that Rajini Murugan will be the sole Pongal winner. People, especially in Chromepet and the surrounding flood-hit areas, decided that they would only spend their money on a family film like Rajini Murugan. Too many releases spoiled the Pongal market.”In fact, after the weekend, most of the theatres in the Chengalpet area too shifted Rajini Murugan to their bigger screens. And from its second weekend, Chennai multiplex big screens followed suit. As Tirupur Subramaniam, a leading Coimbatore-based distributor and exhibitor pointed out, “Rajini Murugan was the ideal festival family release, and it provided wholesome entertainment. The film succeeded because it got a favourable release date and was exempted from tax, a big plus for the exhibitors. That apart, Sivakarthikeyan cleared the financial mess which the film was entangled in, and also aggressively promoted it.”Pandiraj’s Kathakali got a lot of critical acclaim, but ended up with limited shows and smaller screens, but it managed to collect around Rs. 5 crore in the opening weekend. These numbers would have been better if it was released during a non-festival weekend. Udhayanidhi Stalin’s Gethu carried mixed reports.Both these films were also certified as U by the censors, but could not get the all-important tax exemption. In fact, Udhayanidhi and his Red Giant Movies have filed a writ petition in the Madras High Court against the state government for not giving Gethu (a Tamil title) entertainment tax exemption.Bala’s Thaarai Thappattai, which had an A certificate, was considered to be too violent for the mass audiences. The film did best in Chennai where it was distributed by the market leader Sathyam Cinemas, who showcased it in all their properties, which helped in the opening weekend. A veteran distributor remarked, “It was not a good decision to release Thaarai Thappattai, which carried an A certificate, during festival time. The family audiences are the core of any festival release; and theatres, too, in small towns shied away from the film. It would have done better if it got a solo non-festival release date.”Pongal 2016 turned out to be a landmark year for film business in Tamil Nadu. It clearly showed the power of the exhibitors, above other sections in trade. Too many releases on a festival day are not good for the business, as box-office collections get divided.