http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Kool-boys-in-the-city/article14017682.ece

Tusshar Kapoor and Aftab Shivdasani, the veterans of adult comedies, turned up in Delhi to promote their latest outing Kya Kool Hai Hum 3 with Gauhar Khan.Asked about the experience of shooting and featuring in adult comedies, Aftab reminded, “We are not new to adult comedies. Both Tusshar and I have been part of Kya Kool series and Masti series respectively. The kind of humour in normal movies is fit for universal viewing while the script and humour in adult comedies is specifically altered for adult audiences and should be seen in that light.”Tusshar, the seasoned player of Kya Kool series mocked at the controversy building up over the content of the movie. “Out of all kinds of adult films featuring violence and intense themes, only our innocent adult comedies are targeted.” The actor clarified, “People may be getting the wrong idea as the tagline of the movie says ‘A Porn-Com’. See, it is a fun story of two guys who get into porn industry to earn money and end up meeting two ‘sanskaari’ girls and the golmaal follows.” He promised that the movie will deliver quality content and nothing is “out of the limits”. He closed the answer with a wink, stating, “it’s a family movie, but not for kids.”Gauhar Khan, who features in a song in the movie said, “It’s my first tie-up with Balaji Films. As for the song I would say I love the lyrics and music of the song. Plus, dancing with the ‘Kool’ boys was great fun too.” Gauhar added that she had done only serious and heavy roles in Bollywood and would like to try funny and comic roles. She also expressed her desire for acting in Punjabi movies as well. Asked about her choice between acting and dancing, she retorted, “It’s like asking a parent to differentiate between his/her two kids”.When one pointed to the possibility of big movie banners getting offended by the parodies and spoofs of mainstream Bollywood movies in the movie, Aftab defended, “All things in the movie are done in good spirit that is of fun and humour with no intention of hurting someone’s feelings.”On clash with Airlift and release of Mastizaade, another adult comedy featuring Tusshar, in the following week, Aftab said, “See both Airlift and KKHH 3 are movies of different genres and have their own audiences. So, I guess the audiences will react according to their interests and let’s see what happens.” “The release of movies is not in our hands, but as both KKHH 3 and Mastizaade are my movies and are of the same genre, I hope both of them do well at box office,” remarked Tusshar.