http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Madurai/Koodal-Nagar-to-become-satellite-station-of-Madurai/article14021239.ece

At last, the long-pending demand of making use of Koodal Nagar railway station to decongest Madurai junction has taken a concrete shape with the Madurai Railway Division proposing to make a satellite terminal.With all platforms getting saturated at Madurai junction, the division has proposed to make Koodal Nagar railway station, which is four km away from it, the second terminal for Madurai, Divisional Railway Manager Sunil Kumar Garg said.Talking to reporters here on Monday, he said that six platforms were under use for operation of trains and goods, one spared for engine movement and the remaining for parking the medical van and accident relief rake.He said that given the limited space at Madurai junction, there was no scope for expansion. Hence, Koodal Nagar railway station, for its proximity to the railway junction, could very well be converted as a satellite terminal. He said that Koodal Nagar station premises had enough space for expansion for coaching yard and additional pit lines.The railway officials would seek the assistance of the Collector to create better facilities for passengers such as approach roads from both sides of the railway station.“We plan to have entries on both eastern and western sides like the Madurai junction,” he said.Mr. Garg said that it had been proposed to extend Chennai Egmore-Manamadurai Silambu Express upto Shencottah, via Aruppukottai and Virudhunagar.He said that at present, Pothigai Express was the only express train catering to the people of Shencottah.“Though a little bit circuitous, it would benefit the people of the region to a great extent,” he said. Similarly, a proposal to extend Thiruvananthapuram-Palakkad Amritha Express upto Dindigul (via Pollachi and Palani) had been made following the opening of Pollachi-Palakkad broad gauge section.Madurai railway division’s total earnings had gone up to Rs. 552.11 crore till December 2015 as against Rs. 529.58 crore during the corresponding period the previous year.Additional Divisional Railway Manager R.V.B. Babu, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager T. Ramalingam, Chief Medical Superintendent G. Sahoo were present.