http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/kozhikode/Kozhikode%E2%80%99s-perfect-10-at-fest/article14024450.ece

One of the talking points at the 56{+t}{+h}State School Arts Festival, which concluded at Thiruvananthapuram on Monday, was the relatively smaller crowds for most events.A year ago at Kozhikode, you had huge attendances for almost every competition.That was also the case in 2010, when Kozhikode hosted the 50{+t}{+h}edition of the festival. No place in the State could perhaps match Kozhikode’s passion for art, in fact.When there is such patronage for art, it is not surprising that Kozhikode has become the most dominant district at the State School Arts Festival. It was for the tenth time in a row that it won the Gold Cup. No mean achievement, that.Once again it was Silver Hills HSS that played the biggest role in Kozhikode’s victory; it contributed 128 points. But, the school could not come anywhere near its performance last year, when it collected 263 points, more than one-fourth of the district’s total.But, the solid show by St. Joseph’s Anglo Indian GHSS, which scored 93 points, ensured that Kozhikode retained the crown, pushing the main contender Palakkad behind by five points.There were also good shows by schools such as Presentation HSS, Kozhikode, and Govt. BHSS, Koyilandy.P.K. Sasilal, the programme coordinator for the School Festival at Silver Hills, said the school fared better than expectations because many of the best talents could not take part in Thiruvananthapuram. “Several of the potential winners were victims of unfair judgement at the district level,” he said.“The stricter norms for the ‘appeals’ meant there was no second chance for them.”Shiny Devasia, who is the festival convenor at St. Joseph’s, said her school suffered because of the reluctance of the authorities to allow ‘appeals’.“Many of our talented students were denied the opportunity to compete in Thiruvananthapuram,” she said.“If you do not get good judges at the District and Sub-District levels, you should at least give them a chance through the ‘appeal,.” Ms. Devasia saidIt is the dedicated efforts of people like Shiny and Sasilal and the encouragement to the art by schools such as Silver Hills and St. Joseph’s that Kozhikode has become undisputed champion at the State School Festival.