http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/KSEB-bent-on-saving-power/article13993520.ece

Labhaprabha Season 3 (2016), the energy conservation scheme of the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB), implemented at a cost of Rs.150 crore, aims at saving 400 million units of electricity this year. That means cutting the daily peak time load by 350 megawatts.Under the scheme, about six lakh domestic sector consumers whose average consumption is less than 40 units a month will be given two 9 watt LED bulbs for free. Others in the domestic category will be given the two bulbs at a concessional rate of Rs.95 each.The LED bulbs are sold at Rs.400 each in the open market. The scheme is on the lines of the Union government’s Domestic Efficient Lighting Programme.The message ‘goodbye to yellow light’ is also being spread along with the scheme.Through the scheme, consumers can expect reduced electricity bills. The KSEB claims that compared to a 60 watt bulb or a 20 watt CFL lamp, one LED bulb can save seven units of power a month when lit four hours daily.The LED lamps to be sold by the KSEB at concessional rates come with a warranty of three years. Consumers have the choice of paying for the lamps in four instalments along with their bimonthly bills.The KSEB targets the domestic sector through the scheme because it is this sector which consumes more than half of the electricity distributed in the State.While the KSEB expects a total consumption of 19,675 mu during 2015-16 in the State, the consumption by the domestic sector will touch 10,147 mu. To bring each unit of power to this sector, the KSEB incurs a cost of Rs.6.03, but the actual amount collected from this sector is only Rs.3.76 per unit. It is this situation which made the State government and the KSEB think on the lines of serious energy conservation measures for the domestic sector.Quality ‘guararanteed’Distribution of LED lamps will commence along with the payment of the February bills of the KSEB through the respective section offices. The aim is to cover all domestic category consumers in two months. Each section will inform its consumers of the distribution.Those paying bills online may book the lamps online. These will be even home delivered for a token service charge. Under Labhaprabha Season 4, the KSEB intends replacing the existing domestic electric gadgets with more energy-efficient gadgets at concessional rate. As a prelude to this programme, the KSEB recently carried out a survey in Malappuram district. The data collected through the survey is being coordinated.The LED lamps to be sold by the KSEB come with a warranty of three years.