http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/KSHRC-asks-for-removal-of-ADGP/article14023874.ece

The Karnataka State Human Rights Commission (KSHRC) has asked for the removal of the head of the police wing for his activities that have been considered as being against the commission.Meera Saxena, acting chairperson of the commission that sees nearly 5,000 cases lodged yearly, said on Wednesday that the members had recommended to the State government to “repatriate” (transfer) Additional Director General of Police N. Shivakumar.While proceedings for the removal had started nearly two weeks ago, the commission took the resolution on Saturday. “Since the appointment nearly eight months ago, there have been only a handful of raids or reports from the officer while complains surge,” Ms. Saxena said. She added that in most cases, the Public Relations Officer or court officers had to be empowered to conduct the raids or reports to ensure complaints do not pile up.While the commission has given him warnings, the tipping point seems to be letters written by Mr. Shivakumar to the Police Department asking for the repatriation of numerous officers, who had been deputed as personal staff of the chairperson.This included gunmen for the chairperson, office staff and even the operator of the toll-free helpline.“This is beyond his duties. He did not respond satisfactorily to the show-cause notice sent. We could have recommended disciplinary action, but the commission took a considerate view and have only recommended a transfer,” Ms. Saxena said.In response, Mr. Shivakumar told The Hindu that he has “promptly” conducted all investigations referred to him by the members of the commission.“I asked for the police personnel to be transferred as they were doing menial jobs and not investigation work at the commission,” he said.With the recommendation having been forwarded to the government, Mr. Shivakumar said he was awaiting further directions from the Police Department.The embattled commission already finds it “difficult” to manage the overwhelming complaints received after the former judge S.R. Nayak retired nearly two years ago.Since his appointment nearly eight months ago, there have been only a handful of raids or reports from Additional Director General of Police N. Shivakumar, while complains surgeMeera Saxena,acting chairperson, Karnataka State Human Rights Commission