http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/KSIC-plans-to-expand-reach-of-Mysore-Silk-saris/article13978070.ece

To expand the reach of the famed Mysore Silk saris, the Karnataka Silk Industries Corporation (KSIC) has proposed to open new outlets within and outside the State this year.Keeping in view the rising demand for silk saris, an exclusive store will be opened shortly at the Kempegowda International Airport at Devanahalli. Besides an outlet at Indiranagar in Bengaluru, new stores have been proposed at Belagavi, Hubballi and Shivamogga. A KSIC outlet will be opened at Davangere this month.Outlets in DelhiSix outlets function in Mysuru and seven in Bengaluru, said KSIC chairman D. Basavaraja told reporters on Saturday. In addition, one outlet each had been set up in Hyderabad and Chennai. “We are in talks with Mysore Sales International Ltd. (MSIL) for opening a store on its premises in Mumbai. Similarly, we have approached the Karnataka Bhavan in New Delhi seeking space for a company store,” he said.Claiming that 75,000 silk saris had been sold last year, the KSIC had grossed a turnover of Rs. 107 crore till December. “We are confident of reaching the targeted turnover of Rs. 160 crore in 2015-16, which will be highest in the history of the silk factory,” he said.A target had been set to produce 4,10,000 metres of silk products, mainly the celebrated Mysore Silk saris, in 2015-16.High productionThis will be 20,000 metres more compared to the production achieved last year, he said, adding that 30 tonnes of silk cocoons is bought every month from farmers in Ramanagaram and Sidlaghatta to meet the demand. Mr. Basavaraja said the defunct Channapatna silk factory will be revived this year as the global tender process is expected to be completed next month.The KSIC plans to start production of soft silk saris at the Channapatna plant at a cost of Rs 9.25 crore, he said, adding that equipment for the factory will be imported. “Once the Channapatna factory becomes functional, we hope to offer budget saris for as low as Rs. 5,000 a piece,” he said. Marketing Manager Philomen Raj and senior officials from KSIC were present.The Karnataka Silk Industries Corporation achieved a turnover of Rs. 107 crore till December