http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/KTR-takes-up-deportation-issue-with-US-Consul-General/article13983703.ece

Silicon Valley University and National Polytechnic University are not blacklisted, said the U.S. Consul General, Hyderabad, Michael Mullins in an informal gathering held in the city on Tuesday. As per immigration officers of the US, the two varsities are not blacklisted as of today, Mr. Mullins confirmed here in the city.The Consul also had a meeting with K.T. Rama Rao, Minister for IT and Panchayati Raj on the matter later in the afternoon. The Minister who briefed the media after the meeting said that, according to the Consulate most students who were being apprehended in the US were those who carried “fake certificates or documents”. While the Minister promised to look at fraudulent agencies who do trick students into committing immigration fraud, Mr. Rao said he “also informed the Consulate that as the students who carry legitimate visas with proper documents should not be penalised at immigration points.”When he raised the issue of students being handcuffed in the US, the Consulate authorities had informed him that it “could have happened in just some cases”. “The Consul General informed me that almost all students were taken care of at immigration points and were deported peacefully,” Mr. Rao said in the briefing. The Minister also promised to write to Sushma Swaraj, Minister of External Affairs on the matter. “The government will write to Sushma Swaraj asking for her quick intervention on the matter,” he said.Consulate authorities had also told the Minister that students from across India are being deported but since there are more students from Telangana and AP migrating to the US, deportations are also high, he said. Only a bilateral solution to the problem that includes consensus from both the countries will work in the benefit of students. Meanwhile, in a separate petition, Migrant Rights Council of India also appealed the U.S. Consulate to intervene and enquire into the matter.