http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Kudumbasree-women-will-issue-tickets-soon/article14002742.ece

Kudumbasree women in the district will play a vital role in promoting the public transport system. They will soon start issuing tickets in private buses in the district.The Motor Vehicle Department in the district has roped in Kudumbasree women to strengthen the public transport system. Bus owners in the district have been alleging a shortage of good conductors. “Presence of good conductors will definitely attract more people to buses,” said Regional Transport Officer M.P. Ajit Kumar.The Motor Vehicle Department will form a women conductor bank in the district by giving training to Kudumbasree members. Two women will be selected from every panchayat for training in the first phase. “We are going to form a conductor bank of 200 Kudumbasree women,” Mr. Ajit Kumar said.The department will publish the list of trained conductors on its website. Any bus owner can seek the service of the conductor from the department.There were several complaints from different parts of the district against bus conductors for not issuing tickets to passengers.Mr. Ajit Kumar said that many conductors serving the buses lacked training and had no licence. “About 15 per cent of the conductors in the district do not have licence,” Mr. Ajit Kumar said.He said equipping Kudumbasree women with conductor’s licence would go a long way in strengthening the public transport system in the district. “It will be a part of empowering women as well,” he said.Kudumbasree units from other districts have reportedly evinced interest in the training offered by the department. “It isa first in the State. Malappuram can take pride in it,” district panchayat president A.P. Unnikrishnan said.Many drivers and conductors currently employed in the district were found to be addicts of drugs and other intoxicants. It was revealed during a screening recently conducted by the department as part of selecting the best bus driver and the best bus conductor.“We have to make serious interventions to save the young generation from the grips of drugs,” Mr. Ajit Kumar said.Presence of good conductors is expected to attract more people to buses