http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Kudachi-MLA-takes-up-debate-challenge/article14004340.ece

When the former MLA of Kudachi, Ghatage Shama Bhima, accused present MLA P. Rajiv of starting an agitation against sugar factory owners and dropping it after receiving massive kickbacks from them, he surely did not expect what came his way as rebuttal.What proved his undoing was the fact that, in the heat of the moment, Mr. Bhima did not stop at making the accusation but went on to dare his successor to a public debate on the kickback issue. Mr. Rajiv, a former policeman known for his upright ways, decided to take him quite literally at his word.He set up a pandal in a public place in the constituency with an ornate chair bang in the middle of the dais with the name of Mr. Bhima stuck on it. He said he was all set for a public debate and his adversary could join him in the pandal at his leisure, seating himself on a chair next to the reserved place.Needless to say, the man who made the accusation never turned up.What ails Dakshina Kannada?“Dakshina Kannada district is blessed with four modes of transport: road, rail, air, and sea. It has enterprising people, who not only excelled in India but also abroad. Still I wonder why it has not become the gateway for Karnataka,” wondered Additional Chief Secretary and district in-charge Secretary Bharat Lal Meena at the Invest Dakshina Kannada Meet.It is not that Mr. Meena or anybody else in the government is unaware of the reasons. Though New Mangalore Port Trust could have acted as the gateway to Karnataka, the coastal region lacks proper road and rail network to connect to the hinterlands.Congress MLA and former bureaucrat J.R. Lobo did not miss the opportunity to say this loudly. “Bengaluru [the government] does not have patience to listen to and redress our grievances.”It is not just enough to hold investors’ meet; the government should also provide necessary infrastructure for the growth of industries. The government had formed an IT park in Mudipu (near Mangaluru). Except a few IT companies, none have bothered to open the shop there because the area lacks proper road connectivity, Mr. Lobo said.Bharathi Shipyard at Bengre, off Mangaluru, once employed 500 graduate engineers. Now the company is at the verge of shutdown. “I approached many people, but none responded,” he rued.“Just provide us adequate power, sufficient water and proper roads. We will look after the rest and grow. Also ensure prevalence of law and order. When one intends to develop tourism industry, one would face CRZ problems and moral policing issues,” Mr. Lobo said.MLA annoyedAll is not well in the Congress in Karnataka. Party MLAs and workers are frustrated over the delay in the appointment of members and directors to various State-run boards and corporations. Upset over the delay, S.T. Somashekhar, Congress MLA, dashed off a letter to the Chief Minister and requested him to fill vacancies before the ZP, TP polls. But the Chief Minister’s reply was in the negative.He said appointments will be made only after the polls.The Yeshwantpur MLA urged KPCC president and Home Minister G. Parameshwara to convene the party’s executive meeting to discuss the issue. Even after 30 months of the party coming to power, the leadership is still dilly-dallying in making these appointments. By doing so, hundreds of party workers who toiled for the party’s growth are being denied opportunity. At least now, Mr. Siddaramaiah and Mr. Parameshwara should take note of the issue and do the needful. Appointments would make party cadre work more enthusiastically in the ensuing zilla and taluk panchayat elections, the MLA argued.Bageshree S.,Anil Kumar Sastry, andNagesh Prabhu