http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/kozhikode/Kunnamangalam-Edu-Project-launched/article14020176.ece

District Collector N. Prasanth inaugurated the Kunnamangalam Edu Project (KEP), a joint initiative of the Social Service Group (SSG) of the Indian Institute of Management, Kozhikode (IIM-K) and the Kunnamangalam Residents Association.The objective of the project is to make the students aware of the numerous career paths open before them and help them achieve the academic and career goals. The project aims at educating talented children, particularly those from the weaker sections.Fifty students from nine schools in the Kunnamangalam area were admitted to the first batch of this year.The Collector congratulated them for having secured admission to the novel project. He also praised the SSG of IIM-K and the residents’ association for initiating the project, which is worthy of emulation.Speaking on the occasion, Deputy Collector Shamin Sebastian shared her experience underscoring the difficulties faced by students in chasing different professions while growing up. She hoped the project would help the children develop the basics required to fulfil their academic and career goals.Commenting on the project, IIM-K Director Kulbhushan Balooni said, “We believe that education is the most important gift that a human being can be bestowed with. It is with the strong belief that we took up the KEP. Under the project, brilliant children of the Kunnamangalam area who are good at studies will be identified, selected and admitted.”Students selected under the project will be imparted special training for academic as well as all round development. Classes commenced on Sunday and will be continued on alternate Sundays of each month, at IIM-K. Sessions will be handled by IIM-K professors, noted educational and career guidance specialists and trainers, in addition to the exciting inputs from IIM-K students.M.G. Sreekumar, Chief Information Officer of IIM-K and mentor of the project; T.K. Zeenath, president of the Kunnamangalam grama panchayat; Radhakrishna Pillai, Dean Administration, IIM-K; Anandakuttan Unnithan Professor, IIM-K, and M. Sudhakaran, president of the Kunnamangalam Residents Association, also addressed the students.Project initiatedby residents’ association and IIM-K for school students