http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Visakhapatnam/KV-Malkapuram-alumni-cherish-%E2%80%98golden%E2%80%99-moments/article14017612.ece

How would it be visiting your school, say after three or four decades? One is sure to get haunting memories of the formative years spent in the school. This was the feeling of the alumni of various batches, who attended the Golden Jubilee global meet of the Kendriya Vidyalaya Malkapuram Alumni Association (KV MAA) at the school campus here on Saturday.Some bowed and touched the steps in obeisance to their alma mater as they entered the main building. Some took pictures of the paintings on the walls on their mobile cameras. Some went round and the vast campus and into the buildings looking for their classroom, labs and other amenities and took a trip down memory lane.They interacted with the present students and proudly proclaimed: “We had studied in 1982…” It was the turn of the youngsters, who were not even born at that time, to get puzzled. Some of the alumni, who often visit the school to contribute whatever they could to their alma mater, were seen being greeted by the present batch students.The global alumni meet was a great occasion to cherish old friendships. Many of the former students, who lost touch with counterparts, recalled the memories of their school days and the fun they had on the school campus. It was great occasion for the old students to meet some of the retired teachers and express their gratitude to them. Many of the alumni had made a mark for themselves in various fields and settled in different States in the country and abroad.Deputy Commissioner of Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan, Regional Office, Bhubaneswar, Lakshmi Chari, participated as chief guest. School Principal D. Vijaya and KV MAA chairman Pijush Das spoke about the significance of the meet. Headmaster B. Krishna Rao, KV MAA secretary Sanjeev Dixit and general secretary Wg Cdr (veteran) Jaganmohan Manthena were present.GenesisKV Malkapuram was inaugurated by the then Vice Chancellor of Andhra University K.R. Srinivasa Iyengar in October 1966.“The Golden Jubilee has a personal significance for me as Prof. Srinivasa Iyengar was my grandfather. I remember the day we went to the school to secure admission - he had retired from Andhra University by then. He took my mother and I, all of eight years, to the school by bus.The first Principal, Mandeswara Rao was aghast that such a distinguished personality chose to travel by bus,” Ahana Lakshmi, a distinguished alumna of the school, recalls in a message on the occasion of the golden jubilee.