http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/KVASU-to-launch-poultry-development-training-for-Lakshadweep-entrepreneurs/article13976462.ece

The Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (KVASU) is preparing to launch poultry and goat entrepreneurship development training programme for entrepreneurs of Lakshadweep.The fully residential programme, which will start from the third week of January, will be organised jointly by the Department of Animal Husbandry, Lakshadweep district panchayat, Kavaratti, and Directorate of Entrepreneurship and Centre for Advanced Studies in Poultry Sciences of KVASU with an initial allocation of Rs.3 lakh.Initially 50 entrepreneurs will be given five days of training in two batches. The second batch training programme will be held during the first week of February. The training would cover various aspects of poultry entrepreneurship including poultry production, feeding, management, disease control, marketing, broiler management, waste management and backyard rearing and value addition along with entrepreneurship, banking and finance, said T.P. Sethumadhavan, Director of Entrepreneurship, KVASU.“The training will equip the prospective entrepreneurs to start their own poultry venture. Broiler and layer farming will be given importance during the training programme. Directorate of Entrepreneurship of KVASU in association with the Centre for Advanced Studies in Poultry Science will organise the training at Mannuthy campus,” Mr. Sethumadhavan said. Trainees will get opportunities to visit sustainable models of poultry entrepreneurship in the State. This joint training programme will facilitate entrepreneurs of Lakshadweep to venture into poultry farming so as to improve broiler meat and egg production.“As far as Lakshadweep is concerned there is a huge gap between availability and requirement of poultry products,” said M.I. Koya, District Veterinary Officer, Department of Animal Husbandry, Kavaratti. “Currently all the logistics for the poultry enterprise in Lakshadweep is being operated from the mainland. The island relies on south Indian States to meet the increased demand for poultry products,” Mr. Koya added.