http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Vijayawada/KVIC-to-introduce-solar-charkhas/article13988131.ece

Technology and innovation, when combined, can spark a revolution. This time it is the age-old khadi sector which is all set for a makeover.The spinning wheel will now run on solar power in its new avatar of solar charkha.The Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC), through its various khadi-promoting centres, will introduce solar charkhas soon.The solar charkhas will lower strain on weavers and increase productivity. The newly-developed wheels have more spindles that can run on solar power.The objective is to increase wages of spinners since most khadi workers are women.The government wants to provide better returns to them which is not possible with charkhas spun by hand. “A spinner earns Rs. 160 a day for eight hours of work on a hand-spun wheel while test results suggest solar-powered charkhas can spin material worth Rs. 350 to Rs. 380,” said G. Chandramouli, Member, KVIC, south zone.EmploymentKhadi institutions provide employment to scores of artisans but their earnings are meagre.Conventional wheels hold 3-8 spindles of khadi, which produces 25 hanks of yarn in eight hours. Solar-powered spinning wheels can hold 36 spindles to produce 100 hanks in the same time, he explains.The original cost of a solar charkha was Rs. 70,000, which was brought down to Rs. 40,000 by modifications. “Developers of solar-powered charkhas are working at further reducing the cost,” said Mr. Chandramouli.The KVIC has taken several initiatives to increase the earning of artisans. With the support of Gujarat-based Textile Machinery Manufacturing Company, the KVIC has developed the new mode and after a satisfactory spin trial at the manufacturer premises, plans to deploy them for operation at khadi institutions.Mr. Chandramouli explained that in remote and rural areas, where uninterrupted electricity is a distant dream, solar charkhas will help boost the income of the weavers.Once the solar charkha spinning technology is improvised, it can help flourish the traditional spinning into an industry without involving human drudgery besides providing employment to more people at rural level and improving their earnings manifold, he said, adding: “the quality of the yarn will also improve by use of solar charkha.”AP, Telangana lag behindHe said despite high potential, both the Telugu-speaking states of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana lag behind in khadi-promotion drive.There is no awareness, especially in the rural pockets, he rued.“At the moment, we are focussed mainly on three aspects—khadi promotion, effective implementation of skill development programme and enrolments under Prime Minister’s Employment Generation Scheme,” said Mr. Chandramouli.