http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/KVs-revert-to-old-vacation-schedule/article13993484.ece

In a move that would adversely affect hundreds of students in Kerala, the Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan (KVS) has decided not to continue with the revised summer vacation schedule in the State.It was following consistent pressure from parents and an intervention of the Kerala Human Rights Commission (SHRC) that the KVS had decided to close the schools in the State for 50 days of summer vacation from April 16 last year. The schools reopened on June 5 to coincide with the onset of the southwest monsoon. KVS officials had then promised that the new schedule would be followed permanently because of the scorching heat in districts like Palakkad during April and May.However, a new notification was issued last week stating that the schools would be closed on April 25 to reopen on June 13. As a result, students and teachers will have to be in schools during peak summer days when mercury crosses over 40 degrees Celsius. Parents have now started pleading with the KVS citing the plight of the children.On a directive from the SHRC last year, the KVS had conducted a referendum among the parents to reschedule the summer holidays. The Palakkad unit of the Kendriya Vidyalaya Parents Association (KVPA) had approached the KVS Deputy Commissioner in Kochi seeking the change.“In north India, peak summer is towards the end of May and in June and hence holidays at this time help the children there. But in Kerala, the weather pattern is entirely different. Here, peak summer is during the months of April and May. All other schools in the State remain closed in April and May,” E. Jayachandran, district coordinator of the KVPA, who approached the SHRC, said. “Every summer, the temperature goes up to 45 degrees Celsius in Palakkad. The State government issues circulars restricting outdoor activities between 1 p.m. and 3 p.m. during the summer months here. Many sunburn cases are also reported during the period here,” he said.