http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/Lack-of-meals-trump-all-other-issues/article13981743.ece

: As a Delhi Jal Board water-tanker enters the ‘Ren Basera’ night-shelter in Nehru Place raking up dust, 23-year-old Asanta Kumari keeps an eye out for her husband. She hopes he will return with some money. If he doesn’t, it will be yet another day of making do “with water alone”.The common complaint among those staying in night shelters is that there is no provision for meals. The absence of this most basic of needs has forced residents of the shelter to cook their meals on earthen ovens that they’ve dug in a DDA park nearby.“Everything is fine here for us, except that there’s no provision for meals. The toilets as well as the shelters are separated by gender and the blankets keep us warm enough for next day,” she says.Similarly, 42-year-old Lakshman, is quite satisfied with the place except for the lack of meals. With three other family members inhabiting the shelter, Mr. Lakshman says, “I have been staying here for over five years, and the situation has improved significantly”. Perched on a wooden seat, his wife complains about the “lack of food” as she tends to chapattis on an earthen oven.The lack of meals is just one of many problems that residents of an all-women night shelter in Kalkaji Mandir face.“Drunken men often force their way into the compound, hurling abuses at women,” says Radha Pandey, the shelter’s caretaker. Located right across Kalkaji Mandir, the residents have requested that a policeman be deploy outside the shelter.“Most of us stay with our children here. Although we keep our gates locked, men can easily jump over the wall,” says 32-year-old Sunita, who stays with her two-year-old daughter. Soaring summer temperatures often turn the tin shelter into a furnace. Pinky, 22, says, “Often the fans stop working and it gets too hot. During monsoon, rainwater trickles in through the roof.”The women’s request to the government is simple, please arrange for a basic meal.(The writer is an intern with The Hindu )