http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/Lalu-issues-gag-order-on-RJD-leaders/article13976096.ece

With the continuing slugfest threatening to snowball into a rift between the Rashtriya Janata Dal and the Janata Dal (United), RJD chief Lalu Prasad on Friday asked his party leaders not to make any controversial comments as the government has been working “well and fine.” His remarks came three days after Mr. Prasad pointed to the deteriorating law and order in the State.“The party spokespersons and leaders should refrain from making any controversial statement as it will affect the interests of the party. Some leaders make controversial comments to increase their TRPs. Such leaders and spokespersons should take permission from the leadership before making any statement,” Mr. Prasad said.He denied any rift in the alliance. “The Mahagathbandhan [the Grand Alliance] government is working well and fine. We’ve to fulfil our promises to the people,” he said.On Tuesday, after a spate of killings of engineers over extortion demands, the RJD chief expressed dismay at the law and order situation. “The Nitish Kumar government must be more vigilant, and if anyone receives any extortion call, please call me and I’ll ensure speedy action,” he told journalists.JD(U) leaders were upset. They said no one could question Chief Minister Nitish Kumar’s commitment to law and order. The Opposition BJP took a dig at the ruling alliance, calling Mr. Prasad the “super CM.”On Thursday, RJD vice-president Raghuvansh Prasad Singh said Chief Minister Nitish Kumar was responsible for law and order. “Nitish Kumar is sitting in the driver’s seat and responsible for anything that happens in the State. He should take stern measures to prevent law and order deteriorating further,” he said. “The RJD is sitting in the back seat. The man at the wheel is responsible for the safe driving of the vehicle,” he replied, when reminded that the RJD is a part of the ruling coalition.Mr. Singh’s remarks triggered a fresh war of words. “After his defeat in the Lok Sabha polls, Raghuvansh Prasad Singh has become senile… He has been making such statements for long to derail the Mahagathbandhan government in the State,” JD(U) spokesman Sanjay Singh told The Hindu . Another party leader and Rajya Sabha member Ali Anwar said: “We don’t need any certificate from Mr. Singh on governance… everyone, including Mr. Lalu Prasad, has become fed up with Mr. Singh.”Soon RJD leader and Co-operatives Minister Alok Mehta came out in support of his party leader. “Raghuvansh Prasad Singh is our vice-president, and the deteriorating law and order situation should be the concern of everyone in the State,” he said.Meanwhile, the Congress, the third partner in the coalition, backed Mr. Nitish Kumar. “Law and order has always been the USP of Mr. Nitish Kumar for which he has won praise across the country. Some criminal incidents have taken place, and the Chief Minister is looking into them. He will handle them effectively,” Pradesh Congress Committee president and Education Minister Ashok Chaudhury said.