http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Land-pooling-draws-praise-from-Rajan/article14013914.ece

: Reserve Bank of India Governor Raghuram Rajan has appreciated the Andhra Pradesh government’s land pooling policy for the capital region.During his interaction with Chief Minister N.Chandrababu Naidu at Davos as part of ongoing World Economic Forum annual meeting late on Wednesday, Mr. Rajan said it was a very innovative process. He was all praise for Andhra Pradesh hoardings and ‘Make AP Your Business’ bus that was creating a buzz on the streets of Davos.Mr. Naidu apprised the RBI Governor about the government’s efforts to drought-proof the State in the next few years and emphasised the need for additional support to agriculture and allied activities such as dairy, poultry, fisheries etc. Mr. Rajan, according to a release from Chief Minister’s Office, responded positively.Mr. Naidu also briefed Mr.Rajan about e-Pragathi to provide unified and connected governance with citizen centricity at its core. The State also completed Aadhaar seeding and brought in transparency in the PDS through e-PoS (Electronic point of sale).Siemens, Welspun look towards APAndhra Pradesh may be home to some prestigious companies soon going by the interest evinced by their top representatives.Textile giant Welspun Group has come forward to explore opportunities for setting up a manufacturing plant in the State. Company chairman B.K. Goenka, who interacted with Mr. Chandrababu Naidu on the growth potential of textiles and apparel industry in the State, indicated that a team from the company would soon visit Andhra Pradesh.Dr. Roland Busch, member of managing board, Siemens, expressed interest in setting up a power grid simulation and transport planning system in the State.Given that Siemens is a leading pioneer in urban infrastructure, smart grids, transport, signalling, the Chief Minister sought their assistance for building Andhra Pradesh capital Amaravati. During their meeting, the Chief Minister elaborated on the ‘Smart Village – Smart Ward’ programme and how his government was keen on implementing international best practices for building world-class cities.‘The land pooling policy for the capital region is a very innovative process’