http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Large-number-of-people-throng-Attur-shrine-as-annual-feast-concludes/article14025560.ece

A large number of people visited the two-and-a-half centuries old St. Lawrence Shrine and offered prayers as the five-day annual feast of the shrine concluded here on Thursday.Devotees lit candles in front of the statue of St. Lawrence. The feast of “Our Lady of Wayfarers” was celebrated on the occasion. Most Rev. Gerald Isaac Lobo, Bishop of Udupi Catholic Diocese, conducted the mass in Konkani at 10 a.m. A large number of devotees participated in it.Dr. Lobo said that it was essential for people to show compassion and kindness towards those who had suffered atrocities or were in distress. St. Lawrence was merciful to all the needy. Pope Francis had declared the present year as the Year for Mercy. Hence, it was incumbent upon everyone to be kind and compassionate to their fellow beings, he said.Rev Fr. George D'Souza, Rector of the Shrine, thanked everyone for the successful conduct of the five-day grand feast. Rev. Alphonse D’Lima and Vijay D’Souza, assistant priests and Rev. Josvi Fernandes, Head of Karkala Deanery, were present.As many as 48 masses were offered in Kannada, Konkani, Englsih and Malayalam for the benefit of the devotees during the last five days. The bishops of Varanasi, Belthangady, Ballari, Mangaluru and Udupi conducted the masses.The annual feast, which used to be normally held for three days, was extended to five days this year to manage the large number of devotees coming from different parts of the country.“But inspite of extending the annual feast to five days, the number of devotees coming has only increased,” Nakre George Castelio, member of State Christian Development Committee.BEGGARS DAYThe Beggars Day will be held on Friday. Two large donation boxes were placed in two different places at the shrine premises for the devotees to make their cash donations.The donations made by the devotees would be removed from the two boxes and distributed to the beggars after a meal in the shrine premises on Friday.“Last year, about Rs. 6 lakh was distributed among beggars. But, the donation is done based on the needs of beggars,” Mr. Castelino said.Begging is completely banned around the shrine on all the days.