http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Mangalore/Last-year%E2%80%99s-runners-up-top-the-table-at-The-Hindu-Young-World-Quiz/article13989318.ece

Half way through ‘ The Hindu Young World Quiz’, Class 9 student Mahesh Nayak and his classmate Mahindra from Canara CBSE School knew very well that the image on the screen, which was partly covered by grids, was that of Deepika Padukone. But they did not take a risk to answer the question as they feared they might lose the points they had earned.The two played safe, earned some bonus points by pressing the buzzer and topped the table with 82 points. They were declared winners of the competition for Mangaluru region. The event was held on the Canara Girls High School premises here on Friday. Their classmates Nischal R. Bhat and Karan R. Shetty were the first runner’s up with 68 points.Nayak and Mahindra were the second runner’s up while Mr. Bhat was part of the Canara CBSE school team that won the competition last year. As many as 192 teams from schools in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts took part in the written preliminary round held at 2 p.m. Two teams each from Sharada Vidyalaya, Little Rock Indian School Brahmavar and Canara CBSE were chosen for the on-stage final round.These students faced 24 questions from quiz master V.V. Ramanan covering current affairs, sports, history, science and music.From the audienceStudents, who could not make to the podium, were seated in the audience and they answered some of the questions which those on the stage could not answer. One such question was on popular Kannada song ‘Spot spot’ that was played on the screen. While a Canara High School student identified the singer as Puneet Rajkumar, she could not identify the film ‘Killing Veerappan’.Nayak and Mahindra received the winner’s trophy and bicycles. Bhat and Shetty and Anish S. Hebbar and Vishwas Adiga from Little Rock Indian School, who were first and second runner’s up, respectively, received trophies and certificates. Goodie bags were given to other participants. Indian Oil Corporation’ Manager (Retail Sales) Anoop Kushwali gave away the prizes.State Bank of India was the prime sponsor, while Firefox Bikes was the national prize sponsor. KOKUYO Camlin was the Goodie sponsor and the Byju’s was the regional sponsor.Mahesh PU College and Robomate+ were associate sponsors.