http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Laughter-as-therapy/article13997441.ece

In modern times, when fitness is often attributed to certain standards of weight and shape, actor Ali Asgar has a different take on fitness and believes that fitness is all about how one feels about oneself. Ali, known for his comic timing, says, “Fitness for me is being happy and I am inclined to follow my heart.”“In Comedy Nights With Kapil, we play lot of gags and do many fun activities that make our audience crack into laughter and entertains us as well in turn,” says the actor as he focuses on the value of laughter as a medicine. The grandmother on the popular show will soon be seen in yet another comedy series Woh Teri Bhabhi Hai Pagle on SAB TV. “I don’t go to gym and spas for massages. We are actors and hence expected to give a daily dose of entertainment to the viewers and that leaves us hardly with any time for exercise and workout. My fitness is all about an effective long stretch of morning walk in fresh air, playing badminton and tennis, and most importantly, being in a happy mood.”The actor believes that he doesn’t let stress and tension near him because for him “no tension, no stress is fitness in itself” as he goes on to say, “One’s state of mind and mood affects the body severely and depression is a major reason for decline in health. If you are sad and stressed you can have problems like loss of appetite and constipation.”Ali, who loves his work, says, “Nothing is better for me than acting” believes that if his work is enjoyed by the audience he is happy but if not then he thinks that his energy has gone waste. He gives the same idea to everybody and advises to do whatever you enjoy, be it dancing for a few minutes or playing indoor games to remain fit.Ali opens up about his diet and advises to avoid overeating.“You should eat whatever you’ve been eating since childhood and what your parents wanted you to have in a proper lunch box.” He credits Akshay Kumar for influencing him on his attitude towards importance of a good health.The actor points out diseases like diabetes are not only about imbalanced chemicals in our body but also we owe some of that to our sedentary lifestyle. He says, “I walk at least 2-3 kms everyday to balance my body and relax my mind. Yoga is very important for relaxing mind, body and soul as it helps in building a strong mind.” Ali maintains that “a strong mind is very important for over all fitness.”