http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/entertainment/Laughter-is-the-best-medicine/article14004025.ece

In modern times, when fitness is often attributed to certain standards of weight and shape, actor Ali Asgar has a different take on it. He believes that fitness is all about how one feels about oneself. Ali, known for his comic timing, says, “Fitness for me is being happy and I am inclined to follow my heart.”“In Comedy Nights With Kapil , we play a lot of gags and do many fun activities that make our audience laugh,” says the actor as he focuses on the value of laughter as medicine.The actor, who plays Kapil’s grandmother on the popular show, will soon be seen in yet another comedy series Woh Teri Bhabhi Hai Pagle on SAB TV.“I don’t go to the gym and spas for massages. We are actors and hence, expected to give a daily dose of entertainment to viewers. That leaves us with hardly any time for exercise and workouts. My fitness is all about an effective, long morning walk in the fresh air, playing badminton and tennis, and most importantly, being in a happy mood.”The actor says he doesn’t let stress and tension near him because for him, “No tension, no stress is fitness in itself. One’s state of mind and mood affects the body severely and depression is a major reason for decline in health. If you are sad and stressed, you can have problems like loss of appetite and constipation.”‘Nothing is better than acting’Ali, who loves his work, says, “Nothing is better for me than acting.” He believes that if his work is enjoyed by the audience, he is happy but if not, then he thinks his energy has gone waste. He advises others to do whatever they enjoy, be it dancing for a few minutes or playing indoor games to remain fit.But, he says, overeating should be strictly avoided.“You should eat whatever you’ve been eating since childhood and what your parents wanted you to have in a proper lunch box.”Sedentary lifestyleThe actor points out that diseases such as diabetes are not only about imbalanced chemicals in the body but also about a sedentary lifestyle. He says, “I walk at least 2-3 km everyday to keep my body fit and unwind. Yoga is very important for relaxing the mind, body and soul. It helps in building a strong mind.” Ali maintains that “a strong mind is very important for overall fitness”.He credits actor Akshay Kumar for influencing him on his attitude towards the importance of good health.My fitness is all about an effective long morning walk in the fresh air, playing badminton and tennis, and most importantly, being in a happy moodAli Asgar