http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/Laying-bare-the-artistic-prowess/article13995065.ece

When Pakistani artist Rashid Rana was studying art in Lahore, he had taken photographs of goats being slaughtered during Bakri Eid. It was something that he had never been comfortable with, but had taken those pictures nevertheless, which had been forgotten about for a long time.Much later, when Mr. Rana found them as a practicing artist, it sparked an idea. He hired assistants to document what goes on during Bakri Eid. And anyone who looks closely at his work ‘Red Carpet’, would know that those photos taken in the abattoirs of Lahore are an assemblage of images which resemble a traditional Persian rug. That work of his was sold for more than 600,000 US dollars in 2008 in New York, making it the highest price ever paid for an art produced by a Pakistani artist. Mr. Rana’s other work, the ‘Veil’ series is similar; a first look would show a veiled woman, but look closely and you would notice that the pictures are as assemblage of graphic pornographic images. The 47-year old, who was in town for a session at the Krishnakriti festival, explains to Yunus. Y. Lasania , in an interview with The Hindu , his ideas behind his work among other things.What gave you the idea to work on the ‘Veil’ series?When I came back from Boston in 1995, I told myself that I didn’t want to make art which can be appreciated by an audience of 25 people. I wanted to engage a wider range of audience. So I assumed the role of an image editor. This brought a change in my practice where I was using tonnes of images for these pieces. They look simple in their approach because I wanted them to be accessible to wider audience.Having said that, I wanted them to be complex in a way that after the initial engagement, more layers unfold. So I thought “How about bringing two clichés in my work and letting them effectively destroy themselves”, i.e. the narrow representation of women in the minds of men living in non-western countries that European women are promiscuous and in the western world, they think that post 9/11, all women wear the veil.What was the message you were sending across in the ‘Red Carpet’?Historically, the Muslim society from this (Lahore) side of the world is associated with oriental carpets from the colonial times, just like how Indian is reduced to the word ‘curry’ in the UK. So I thought as a maker I don’t have to do anything, but bring them together (pictures to become a carpet), in the hope that they destroy each other.You have been a successful artist in India. Do you feel at home here? And what is the difference between the art scene in Pakistan and India?In Pakistan, most artists teach. In India, the (art) boom has started. What people do is they see who is becoming critically acclaimed and start investing. India is my home base in terms of galleries, but I don’t live here. These are the peculiarities about art. I live in Lahore, I have a life there.I didn’t plan this 20 years ago when I was painter; that I would live in Lahore with my gallery home base in India, and making work which is uploaded to a company in Germany that produces my work.When you make something like the ‘Veil’, do you think about the reactions? And have you ever faced problems back home over your works?There can be some acts of censorship, but as you can clearly see, while I was making the ‘Veil’ series, I wasn’t censoring myself. I made my work without knowing what the consequences might be. One should not be pragmatic while making the work. Pakistan has been branded in a ‘special’ way. I feel absolutely free. Artists don’t face censorship, at least not until now.