http://www.thehindu.com/features/education/college-and-university/Learning-journalism-in-Chennai/article14001581.ece

“I learnt to love Chennai” I said, frequently when I was asked how life, and the studies is like in Chennai city for foreign student. It’s a journey that started with a will to adapt, an accepting , tolerating heart with the desire to learn from a different environment, culture and different education system .When I landed 2014 July in Chennai, from Namibia to explore the journalism swot in India, my first steps began at Madras University that is where I enrolled in Master of journalism –Online Media; Journalism department Headed by Dr. Ravindra Gopal.Adaptation does not come easily without the will to unlearn in order to learn something new. Practical’s class is where I learnt that journalism without community know-how could not prosper. My exposure to the community as part of my field work helped me to interact with the locals , know the city, understand people and the story I read and analyse daily newspaper.“Do you speak Tamil? They asked.“Konjam konjam” I smiled back as I was replying. Language when seen as a barrier distorts the search of information, something I picked up through my exposure. Learning two to three words in a native language during my interaction with the locals helped me to attain information on field work reports I needed. It is unique not just different. Namibia is partially small with about 3 million people. Being in Chennai over crowded with more than 7 million people, I needed a survival strategy. This is when I started looking at everything around me as unique rather than different. The architecture, dress codes, and the flowers placed almost at every building.As human beings we are born with a tendency of comparing either people, food, living standard which leads us in search of what is familiar. I did the same; I wished the food to taste like at home, the lecturers to teach like those of my home, the birds to sing like those of my town even the education systems to be like my home. Noticing my struggle to accept their difference instead of rejecting what is there taught me that, blending inn is a tool to succeed for journalist student. It was tough but kept getting better then become. Not because I am a heroine but I have had my department backing me up. My studies was extended to internship experience which I had in The Hindu reporting for professional news firm; both class and industrial experience journalism have had been inspiring“You cannot be a journalist, if you are unable to write something a day” HoD Ravindra kept reminding us. It became a hustle in search of info to write more, get school work done. Travelling long distances across the city has been hardship as I looked for newsworthy information, but i could not trade the pain for what I have learnt. Chennai has always been a loud city for me, high music, no break traffic sound, and flying litter; all of it has been also news, worth writing a story or telling a neighbour and worth mould a journalist.