http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/Leaving-nothing-to-chance/article14000252.ece

For some politicians, Baldia elections are turning out to be an interesting equaliser.Some persons who aspired to become legislators by trying their luck in Assembly elections are not hesitating to take a shot at becoming corporators of the GHMC.Those who had already become legislators are trying hard to make their family members, relatives or near and dear ones corporators.For them, what matters is the official tag of public representative and future political career.Close relatives or family members of legislators from the city becoming corporators is not unheard of earlier. Yet, this time, the aspirations of legislators to see one of their family members as corporators seem to have grown stronger.Malkajgiri TRS MLA Ch. Kanaka Reddy is moving heaven and earth to secure the ruling party ticket for his daughter-in-law Ch. Vijayashanthi from ward no. 133. She had been actively participating in party and official programmes in different localities of the ward of late.It wouldn’t be easy for Mr. Reddy to ensure his family member’s victory since he himself had won the Assembly election with slender margin. In Vanasthalipuram on the eastern fringes of the city, TRS leader Rammohan Goud too is reportedly trying to field his wife from one of the local wards.Mr. Goud had contested on TRS ticket from L.B. Nagar in the Assembly elections two years ago.Even more interesting is the scenario in old city. M. Seetharam Reddy and Jagjivan Reddy of TRS and BJP respectively had contested from Chandrayanagutta Assembly constituency earlier. Now, both are trying to contest from Jangammet ward of the old city from the same parties.“It seems ultimately any politician’s goal is to become a public representative. There is a huge difference between being an MLA and a corporator. Still, power even on minor scale matters,” says Ramraj, a resident of old city.Among other factors is the heated political atmosphere in the city with leading political parties such as TRS, Telugu Desam and Congress challenging one another to secure maximum wards in Baldia.While TRS wants to repeat its victory run in Assembly polls in Baldia as well, the Congress and the alliance of Telugu Desam Party and BJP want to prove it wrong.“All parties want their nominees to win and they hope if a constituency-level leader contests from a ward, the winning chances are more,” say some political leaders.