http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/society/Learning-by-Doing/article14022768.ece

When young children connect with nature, you feel they can change the world.“Miss, this is cucumis sativus…that is cucurbita repo…and here is moringa oleifera…” Just at four feet height, 10 years old H.Keshav Bharati puts me to shame. I take his help again to get the names – cucumber, pumpkin and drumstick respectively! “We have grown all this and much more without using pesticides,” he continues pointing towards more greenery in the organic farm spread over 20 cents inside the campus of the KMR International School near Madurai.“We were able to grow more than 15 kilos of different types of vegetables last winter,” says his classmate V.Akash, studying in Class V, and adds confidently, “This year the yield will be much more.”The voices of both the boys are laced in pride as they excitedly tell me the benefits of eating chemical free and nutrient rich vegetables. Harshita, also their classmate reels out more names and how much time each plant takes to grow. In fact, the sense of belonging to the piece of land that these students have tilled and cultivated is amazing and worth appreciating.The school, established two years ago on the Nagamalai Pudukkottai 4-lane, is providing an opportunity to its students to learn by doing. “The less we use the textbooks, the more they understand and learn,” says Sabural Banu Ibrahim, the school vice-principal. It was her idea to convert the science chapters in the CBSE textbooks for IIIrd to Vth graders on plant life and farming into hands-on practical experience.The students were asked to collect seeds or bring saplings from home and they planted them in what they themselves named the KMRian’s Organic Farm. About 70-odd students from the three classes have been involved at every step, right from weeding and clearing the area, planting, watering and taking care with effective use of solid waste, preparing compost pit and other organic pest control measures.As the children progressed from one level of growing plants to the next, says Banu, they also simultaneously read about the salient features of the plant or the crop they were growing. Each of them also developed a small start-up kit preparing a small manual on how to grow a particular fruit or vegetable and other requirements like bio-fertilisers and equipment like hand sprayers, which they made on their own with old plastic bottles.Though each class is assigned an hour daily to tend to their garden, the kids simply love being outdoors now, rain or sunshine no matter. Gardening teaches them survival skills, adds Banu, and also helps them to fathom the farm-to-fork route. The young students also display maturity and confidence beyond their age and now identify and solve problems as a team. The school management’s aim to create and sustain an organic garden and fully integrate it into the curriculum is slowly coming through.Keshav points out how excursions to nearby farmlands have helped them to understand the importance of ‘feeding the soil and not the plant’. They have also learnt about crop rotation and the school friends are growing lady’s finger, coriander, spinach, black-eyed pea, lily and roses, medicinal plant like nilavembu, red hibiscus and the ornamental plant cockscomb, not only in their school campus but their interest and influence has also extended to their homes. Many students have even motivated their parents to start small gardens in the terrace and verandahs of their homes.“I also make my mother buy organic fruits and vegetables as much possible,” says Akash.So are they eating what they are growing? Not yet, says Keshav. Last year the produce was distributed among the teachers and faculty heads. But as years progress and the produce increases, the students will get to eat the fruits – and vegetables – of their labour.If we engage the children in fun-filled action-oriented activities, they have the power to be the change for a sustainable environment, says Banu. “The students, the teachers and the families’ response has helped to not only build but also take forward a non-profit programme like this,” says P.Krishnaveni, the school correspondent.The case for garden-based learning in schools is pretty much obvious then. School gardens are the best places to learn what science and nature is all about and we most certainly need them in more numbers.(Making a difference is a fortnightly column about ordinary people and events that leave an extraordinary impact on us. E-mail soma.basu@thehindu.co.in to tell her about someone you know who is making a difference)