http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/entertainment/Legacies/article14023542.ece

I spent last Saturday acquiring a very satisfying backache, lingering for hours at two excellent exhibitions in the city. It took me a while to get to The State of Architecture: Practices and Processes in India, curated by architect Rahul Mehrotra, cultural theorist Ranjit Hoskote, and Domus India managing editor Kaiwan Mehta, which opened at the National Gallery of Modern Art on January 6. But I am glad I had the better part of a day to peruse the exhibition that delivers exactly what it says on the tin.The show is spread across the museum’s four levels, but take my advice and view it in reverse. The ground floor offers an exhaustive look at the profession of architecture, its evolution and current practices. There are maps and graphs on the walls, accompanied by conscientious annotations and reference material. But I had a lot more fun tracing the timeline on the upper levels, which offers an insight into modern Indian history and the architecture it influenced. My favourite discoveries were the rich legacies of the buildings that I pass by every other day.I’ve always kept my eyes peeled for the cascading haveli-style RPG House in Worli, for instance, on my way to south Mumbai from the ’burbs. It was only at the show that I learned that it’s called Ceat Mahal and was completed in 1974 by IM Kadri Architects, a firm responsible for several other Mumbai landmarks, including Happy Home and School for the Blind and Nehru Centre, that I have often admired, but never paused to think further about.There are several others from Delhi where I grew up: the NDMC indoor swimming pool by Satish Grover, my only memories of which are the skanky bathrooms, and Raj Rewal Associates’ National Institute of Immunology, where I went every day for lunch during my post-graduate days, ignorant of the fact that it was built by the same man who made the Parliament Library.I then hopped across the street to the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya for the amusing Tabiyat: Medicine and Healing in India, where a busy kohl-making workshop was underway. The “multi-city arts project” helmed by the UK charity, Wellcome Trust, brings together some truly oddball exhibits.There are pictures of Dr Devi Shetty that sit next to a pair of kitschy, painted wooden joris (wrestling clubs) and signboards announcing local “bone setters”. There are old surgical instruments such as early 20th century forceps in the shape of a lion and a wolf, and a bunch of Colonel James Skinner-commissioned portraits of ear cleaners and bath attendants that incorporate Mughal and Rajput miniature elements. It’s a rich collection, but a small show, and I wonder if it could have any effect other than mild dissatisfaction for the viewer, even though its curators don’t claim it to be exhaustive. It’s a large theme after all, and impossible to contain. I am perhaps the only exception with a quibble; the family taking selfies with the wooden clubs didn’t seem to have any complaints.The writer is a former deputy editor of National Geographic India