http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/entertainment/Legends-of-soul/article13989353.ece

Few figures loom as large over the history of 20th century popular music as Ray Charles and Stevie Wonder. The former, christened the ‘High Priest of Soul’, pioneered the sound that would go on to influence artists as varied as Elvis Presley, Aretha Franklin, Stevie Wonder, Van Morrison and Billy Joel.The other, Stevie Wonder, is a child prodigy who started recording music when he was 11 and is the most famous proponent of the Motown sound, winning 25 Grammys over the course of his career.Generations of music lovers across the world have grown up listening to their songs. “They’re both iconic names in the music business,” says Neale Murray, who will be performing songs by both artists tonight at Shades: A Tribute to Stevie Wonder and Ray Charles. “And they’re artists I truly love.”Performing alongside Murray, who is active in the local music scene while also being the Managing Director for digital marketing agency Fountainhead, will be guests Sharon Prabhakar, Dalip Tahil and Brian Tellis, with an all-star supporting band that features critically acclaimed musicians including Bradley Tellis, Samantha Fernandes, Clifton Rodricks, Karl Peters, Cassius Fernandes, Lisa Rodrigues and Janelle Miranda. The idea for the show came from a Motown tribute at the NCPA last year.Murray says, “Every year the NCPA does this thing called the NCPA Legends series where they look at doing tributes to different legends. And obviously when you do a Motown show then Stevie Wonder becomes an integral part of the show. We did four Stevie Wonder songs then and it went down quite well. So when they were talking about doing it again this year, I thought let’s do a Stevie Wonder tribute. It stemmed from there, and then we decided to pick two legends.”“We tend to celebrate a lot of the pop and rock artists,” says Fountainhead co-founder Brian Tellis, who has had a multi-faceted career in entertainment over the past three decades. “We don’t pay tribute to icons like these because they might not be the most popular in the regular sense of the term.” For Murray and Tellis, as well as the other people in the band, both artists were an important part of growing up. “I’ve been listening to them since I was in Grade IX in school,” says Murray. “Around that time Stevie Wonder came out with what I believe is his finest album, a double album, Songs In The Key Of Life . I’ve followed him as an artist right through my growing up years and even now. So this is probably the most appropriate way for me to pay my tribute.”What allows the two artists’ music to stay relevant and resonate with an audience that was not even born when they released their best work? According to Murray, it’s the fact that they both wrote some of the most melodious music of their time.“The minute somebody starts listening to them, you get immediately drawn in,” he says. “And they both wrote great lyrics,” adds Tellis. “So the songs have meanings that are lyrically relevant forevermore.”At tonight’s show, you can expect to hear all of Stevie Wonder and Ray Charles’ biggest hits, including 'Georgia On My Mind', 'I Can't Stop Loving You', 'Isn't She Lovely', 'Sir Duke', 'For Once in My Life', 'Superstition' and many more. But make sure to watch out for some surprises on the way. There are some songs that people might not recognise,” says Murray. “For example, there’s a beautiful song called ‘Love's in Need of Love Today’ . This is a song that was written in 1976 but it has a very relevant message today. It’s all about love and it’s all about hate going around and breaking many hearts. I think the world has gone through that all so I think it’s a great message song.”Shades: A Tribute to Stevie Wonder and Ray Charles will be performed at the Tata Theatre, NCPA , at 7pm today.(The author is a freelance writer)Generations of music lovers across the world have grown up listening to their songs