http://www.thehindu.com/entertainment/Leonardo-DiCaprio-wins-Golden-Globe-for-film-drama-actor/article13994068.ece

Leonardo DiCaprio won the Golden Globe award for best dramatic actor in The Revenant. DiCaprio was saluted with a standing ovation at the Beverly Hilton hotel. He beat out Bryan Cranston of Trumbo, Michael Fassbender of Steve Jobs, Eddie Redmayne of The Danish Girl, and Will Smith of Concussion.The Revenant earned Globes for best motion picture and best director for Alejandro Inarritu.The 41-year-old actor born in Hollywood earned his third career Golden Globe. His earlier wins came two years ago for The Wolf of Wall Street and in 2005 for The Aviator.Actors Kate Winslet, Matt Damon, Sylvester Stallone and Jon Hamm were the other winners at the 73rd annual Golden Globe Awards.Winslet, 40, who played the role of Joanna Hoffman, marketing executive for Apple in biopic Steve Jobs, walked away with the golden trophy in the supporting actress category.The Danny Boyle-directed movie, which did not do well at the box office, earned another trophy for Aaron Sorkin in the best screenplay category.Stallone won the best supporting actor in a motion picture trophy for his role in Creed and was received with a standing ovation.Damon won the best actor trophy in a musical or comedy category for his role of Mark Watney, a botanist in The Martian.The latest from the seventy-third Annual Golden Globe Awards at the Beverly Hilton Hotel in Beverly Hills, California (all times in IST):9:43 am:The Revenant wins best drama film Golden Globe. Director Inarritu earlier won the best director honour and DiCaprio won the best movie actor honor.9:34 am: Leonardo DiCaprio wins Golden Globe for film drama actor. DiCaprio has won the best film drama actor Golden Globe Award for his role in The Revenant.9:30 am: Brie Larson wins Golden Globe in best actress in a motion picture-drama category for her role in Room.9:14 am: Jennifer Lawrence wins Globe for best comic film actress. In a battle of close friends, Lawrence has beaten out Amy Schumer for the Golden Globe for best actress in a film comedy. Lawrence won for her role in Joy.9:13 am: Taraji P. Henson wins TV drama actress Globe.9:05 am: Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu wins the Golden Globe for best director for The Revenant.8:45 am:Mr. Robot has won the Golden Globe Award for best television drama series.8:30 am: Lady Gaga has won the Golden Globe Award for best actress in a limited television series or movie.The Grammy-winning singer won for her role in American Horror Story-Hotel.An emotional Gaga told the audience at the Globes that she wanted to be an actress before she wanted to become a singer, but that her recording career worked out first.Gaga says, “This is one of the greatest moments in my life.”8:15 am:Son of Saul has been awarded the Golden Globe Award for best foreign language film.8:00 am: Sylvester Stallone has won the Golden Globe for best supporting movie actor. Stallone won for his role in Creed, in which he reprised his role as Rocky Balboa.7:50 am:Inside Out has won the Golden Globe Award for best animated film.7:40 am: Matt Damon has won the best actor in a film comedy or musical Golden Globe Award. Damon won for his role in The Martian.7:40 am: Jon Hamm has won the Golden Globe Award for best actor in a television drama series.7:20 am: Sean Penn’s Rolling Stone interview with Joaquin “El Chapo” Guzman had several people fascinated at the Golden Globes.“Santa Monica High alumni get things done. We get nominated for Golden Globes, we help apprehend international drug fugitives, because that’s what we’re taught at Santa Monica High,” joked actor and Penn’s fellow Santa Monica High School alum Rob Lowe.7:20 am:Wolf Hall is the winner of the Golden Globe Award for best mini-series or TV film. The six-episode mini-series stars Damian Lewis as King Henry VIII and Mark Rylance as his trusted adviser. It aired on PBS.7:20 am:Mozart in the Jungle has won the Golden Globe Award for best television comedy series. The Amazon series stars Gael Garcia Bernal as a brash new member of the New York Symphony.7:15 am: Kate Winslet has won the Golden Globe Award for best supporting actress in a feature film. Winslet won for her role in Steve Jobs. She portrays marketing executive Joanna Hoffman, a trusted adviser of the late Apple co-founder.