http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/Leopard-skin-seized-poacher-arrested-in-Odisha/article13994883.ece

A leopard skin was seized by forest officials in Malkangiri district of Odisha. An alleged poacher who was trying to sell it was arrested.According to forest officials, they had received reports that a poacher was trying to make contact with outsiders to sell a leopard skin. Forest officials had contacted him on his mobile phone, posing as prospective buyers.During conversation, Sanyasi Nayak had demanded Rs.50,000 for it but later had agreed to sell it for 40,000. He was arrested by waiting forest officials, when he reached a spot near Karapalli village to receive the money and handover the leopard skin. Speaking to The Hindu on Monday, Malkangiri DFO, T.Ashok Kumar said, it was first of its kind seizure in Malkangiri district. Initial investigation has hinted that there may be four more associates of arrested Sanyasi. Interrogation of Sanyasi is on. The seized leopard skin would be sent to Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun for forensic tests. As per the DFO, during tiger census of 2014, there were evidence to prove presence of leopards in Malkangiri district.In another development, a newborn wildcat cub was rescued by forest officials from Ganjam district.Initially the locals as well as forest officials had suspected it to be a leopard cub. According to DFO of South Ghumusar forest division, B.K.Acharya, detail study of the animal by wild life experts proved that it was not leopard but a new born wild cat. After providing initial medical care, the rescued cub was transported to Nandankanan Zoological Park in Bhubaneswar, the DFO said.“But we are confirmed that leopards inhabit South Ghumusar forest division which would be surely ascertained during tiger and leopard census to be taken up in Odisha from February 5 to 10. In May 2015, a mother leopard along with its cub had been sighted by forest officials in Buguda forest range of this division”, said Mr Acharya.Forest officials had contacted him on his mobile phone, posing as prospective buyers