http://www.thehindu.com/features/homes-and-gardens/Less-conflict-greater-safety/article13988461.ece

Roundabouts (or roundtanas) are the more efficient counterparts of signalled intersections. Not all road junctions are spacious enough to have a roundabout, but those roundabouts located on three or four road junctions, enable traffic to flow smoothly and at an agreeable speed. By creating a circular flow of traffic, these nodes ensure that traffic on all connecting roads can move without having to completely halt. We must, however, ensure that we follow the appropriate protocol to enter and exit these roundabouts.The twin roundabouts located at Egmore are a fine example of how this mechanism works. They connect five thoroughfares — Adithanar Road, Pantheon Road (on two sides), Rukmani Lakshmipathi Road, and Police Commissioner’s Road. There is no traffic signal at this junction, yet commuters enter this 8-shaped twin roundabout and circle their way towards their destination without any confusion. In spite of being a connected pair of roundabouts, the complications here are mitigated, thanks to broad roads and longer arcs.The following guidelines can help us navigate these roundabouts safely and smoothly:1. Choose your lane. Those wishing to exit to the right of their entry should stick to the right or inner lane closer to the circle if you wish to exit to the right. Those looking to exit left or straight ahead may stay to their left or the outer circle.2. Indicate correctly. With vehicles entering and exiting at every node, it is imperative that we indicate our intentions to other road users. Use your left indicator before exiting the roundabout; do so before your desired exit but after the previous one to avoid confusion.3. Never halt. The fundamental principle of a roundabout is continuous flow. Be sure of where you are heading and never pause or slow down after entering the circle.4. Beware of large vehicles. Trucks and buses require a longer turning arc. Give them their space to avoid accidents.vikram.mankal@gmail.com