http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/tamil-nadu/letters/article13981204.ece

Emulate Delhi modelFrom the New Year day, New Delhi has enforced traffic regulations to control pollution. Such a control would also reduce the usage of fuel consumption. Coimbatore city too should enforce the system. Many heavy vehicles, especially buses and lorries, emit thick black smoke and block free flow of traffic. This system will give an opportunity to vehicle owners to get their vehicles repaired on the rest days if planned well.Controlling of traffic will be easier too.T.V. Kalyanakrishnan,Hudco Colony, Tatabad.People–friendly policeI am a former Central Government official. We recently engaged a contractor to undertake painting work of our flat where we saty. The contractor sent two painters to do the job. When the painting work was in progress, I found my gold ring missing along with the box in which it was kept inside a wooden cabinet in our master bed room. I reported the matter to the contractor. But it did not yield any result. I contacted the Saibaba Colony Police Station. The Sub Inspector took my complaint over phone and informed me that I need not come to the police station to submit a petition. The next day, the Sub Inspector called the contractor and the painters to the police station, for an inquiry. One of the painters confessed that he took the gold ring from the cup board and handed over the same to the Sub Inspector.The Sub Inspector then came to my residence and handed over the ring. Such incidents can change the negative perception people have in general about the police. Such people-friendly police officers are the need of the hour.S. Sridharan,K.K. PudurStray dogsStray dogs are threatening the normal life of citizens in many parts of the city. Authorities concerned seem not to take any step to control them despite several complaints. My reporting the matter twice on the corporation website has not yielded any results. Not just the morning walkers, students returning after tuition classes in the night, and those returning from cinemas on two-wheelers are chased by pack of dogs at Nethaji Nagar along Nanjundapuram road. The administration should remove the stray dogs from the roads.Ramachandran K,Nanjundapuram RoadInconvenienceThose who come to see off their friends and relatives at railway stations are creating great inconvenience to other passengers. They create hindrance at the entrance, and the narrow corridors inside compartments. They rush to jump out of the compartments when the train starts moving, again creating inconvenience to those passengers who arrive at the last minute. Railways should make it clear that those without a valid travel ticket should not enter compartments.O.V. RajamohanKangayampalayam.The railways should alert guests of passengers to get down from compartments at the right time. Not every body should be allowed to enter the compartments, which hinders the movement of genuine passengers. Such practice should be stopped immediately. If people don’t stop the practice by themselves the railways should impose a ban on it. Instead of visiting the railway station to see off the dear ones, we should do it at the gates of our houses itself.S. Pitchumani SubramanianVadavalli.Shortage in stampsThere is an acute shortage of stamps at Bharatiar University campus post office.Customers are told ‘no stock, come tomorrow.’ The Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, and the Post Master General (West) must look into it and provide efficient service to the public.N. Hariharan,Thondamuthur Road.