http://www.thehindu.com/features/kids/Let%E2%80%99s-hear-it-for-Charlotte/article14024633.ece

We have all heard of Zuckerman’s famous pig. This pig made his first appearance in Charlotte’s Web. A lovable pig, whose days are numbered finds an unlikely ally in a spider named Charlotte. The friendship grows over time, and it is up to Charlotte to come up with a ploy to save her friend. And that she sure does, with aplomb. Charlotte’s Web was voted the top children’s novel in a 2012 survey of School Library Journal readers. And this was repeated in other surveys. The librarian who conducted it said, “it is impossible to conduct a poll of this sort and expect (the novel) to be anywhere but #1”.All time favouritesThe creator of that pig is E. B. White – Elwin Brooks White. He was born on July 11, 1899. He was an American writer and contributed to The New Yorker magazine. His other books for children include Stuart Little and The Trumpet of the Swan. These books were initially written for his niece Janice Hart White.White was born in New York, the U.S. and was the youngest child of Samuel Tilly White and Jessie Hart White. His older brother, Stan was a professor of Landscape Architecture and inventor of the Vertical Garden. He was a great influence in his life, teaching him to read and explore the world around him.After college, he became a cub reporter for The Seattle Times. From here he moved on to an advertising agency. When The New Yorker was founded, he began submitting manuscripts to it. Katharine Angell, the literary editor, was impressed with his writing and recommended that he be taken on as staff. White, later married Angell.James Thurber, an American cartoonist, author and journalist said that White was a quiet man, who disliked publicity.  While he was working at The New Yorker, he would slip out of office via the fire escape so as to avoid visitors whom he did not know.Among other awards, White, received the Laura Ingalls Wilder Medal from the U.S. professional children’s librarians recognising his “substantial and lasting contributions to children’s literature”. For his book, The Trumpet of the Swan he won the Sequoya Award from Oklahoma and the William Allen White Award from Kansas, both selected by students voting for their favorite book of the year.He passed away in 1985, suffering from Alzheimer’s disease.