http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Life-under-the-big-top/article14021220.ece

A woman with freshly-washed hair twirled into a towel swings a bucket of water into a drum; a toddler squeals as his mother grabs him by his hip; a crow caws from a nearby dish antenna. The behind-the-scenes life of a circus is similar to that of a typical small-town in India. But this one thrives on change; its people are from various cultures, speak several languages and have travelled the length and breadth of this country. Welcome to the world outside the big top. A world where clowns don’t smile incessantly and flying acrobats walk about like the rest of us. How different is this world from ours? Fifty-year-old K. Janardanan, born and brought up in Jumbo Circus, tells us his story in a beguiling mix of Tamil and Malayalam.There are 180 members in this troupe and I know all of them by name. I was born in Bihar, where my father camped with the circus he worked for. My mother, whom he met in Kerala, travelled with him across the country. I grew up in the circus — it was my playground, school, and home. I joined the troupe when I was five, and my first role was that of a clown. As I grew older, I trained as a trapeze artiste. I also perform the Ring of Death, an act in which I balance myself on a rotating contraption (a bar in this case), with rings on either side.Travelling is part of my job. I’ve been to too many places to remember; but Kanyakumari is my favourite. People there are kind to artistes like me. They applaud generously and are quick to help when we get lost in the city during our outings on off-duty days. Mine is an arranged marriage and my wife raised both our sons in Kerala. I hardly get to spend time with my family; it’s the case with most circus artistes. I speak to my wife on the phone twice a day and visit her when I can.It’s not like I miss home; I never feel lonely. In fact, I am always surrounded by people. This is home to me — we share our happiness and sorrows, celebrate birthdays and occasions together… The more years you spend in a circus, the more it seeps into you. So much so that you cannot take up any other job. I got a good business offer when I was younger. But I didn’t pursue it; I was happy with my life here.There have been difficult times. It was around the year 1985 when I’d just perfected my act. The most difficult part of the trapeze is the backward jump. You’ve got to twist your entire body, let go, and jump. It’s something I struggled with initially. That day, I don’t know how, I lost balance during my act and plunged down. I missed the safety net and hit the ground. I lost consciousness and was rushed to a hospital. But miraculously, nothing happened to me. Three days later, I was back at the circus. I was fearful when I held the trapeze bar after the accident, but I overcame it.I’ve many friends here; but my dearest is C.V. Raman. He must be over 60 now and runs his own circus. But I will not talk about just one friend in particular. Every member of the troupe is a friend. To me, the most difficult part of living in the circus is setting up a new camp elsewhere, once the show, which usually lasts three months, is over in a city. I hate the last day of our show — we would’ve got so used to the tents and our temporary homes, and suddenly, we have to pack up and leave. It’s a hard thing to do.I am 50 now and have settled my sons — both are software engineers. Whenever we speak, they ask me to retire and come home to Kerala. But what will I do there? I will wake up, eat, and be idle the whole day. Whereas here, we practise each morning; my body is fit. Since I am also a trainer, there’s always something to do. If I leave the circus, I will grow old.Jumbo Circus is on till February 29 at India Tourist and Industrial Fair, Island Grounds.