http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/Listen-to-the-music-around-you/article14024722.ece

Meklit Hedaro is a charming music composer-singer who begins with a story, “1,500 years ago, a young man was born in the Empire of Aksum…his name was Yared. When Yared was seven-years-old his father died, and his mother sent him to go live with an uncle, who was a priest of the Ethiopian Orthodox tradition…Now, this tradition has an enormous amount of scholarship and learning, and Yared had to study and study and study and study, and one day he was studying under a tree, when three birds came to him. One by one, these birds became his teachers. They taught him music –– scales, in fact. And Yared, eventually recognized as Saint Yared, used these scales to compose five volumes of chants and hymns for worship and celebration. And he used these scales to compose and to create an indigenous musical notation system. And these scales evolved into what is known as kiñit, the unique, pentatonic, five-note, modal system that is very much alive and thriving and still evolving in Ethiopia today.”With this little beautiful story Hedaro emphasizes the idea that birds are often thought of teachers of music. She plays for the audience the sound track of an opera singer warming up. Even as the notes touch you deep within, Hedaro plays you the tweet of a bird. Saying, “That is actually not the sound of an opera singer warming up. That is the sound of a bird slowed down to a pace that the human ear mistakenly recognizes as its own. It was released as part of Peter Szöke’s 1987 Hungarian recording ‘The Unknown Music of Birds’, where he records many birds and slows down their pitches to reveal what’s underneath.”From thereon the talk moves from one day to day occurrence to another trying to find rhythm and melody therein. She talks of words in her language, “I grew up around the language of Amharic, Amhariña. It was my first language, the language of my parents, one of the main languages of Ethiopia….” Hedaro then picks out a word, “indey.” …the word means something like “No!” or “How could he?” or “No, he didn't.” “It kind of depends on the situation. But when I was a kid, this was my very favourite word, and I think it's because it has a pitch. It has a melody. You can almost see the shape as it springs from someone's mouth. “Indey” –– it dips, and then rises again. And as a musician and composer, when I hear that word, something like this is floating through my mind…” she says as she plays a recording of the dip and rise in the sound waves as you say the word.Hedaro goes into the kitchen next and of the many sounds we can immediately visualize, she relates an experience with one of them, “A couple of months ago when I was standing in front of the stove cooking lentils. And it was late one night and it was time to stir, so I lifted the lid off the cooking pot, and I placed it onto the kitchen counter next to me, and it started to roll back and forth…” the sound it made became inspiration for Hedaro’s next composition.Hedaro is making a case to say there is music everywhere, just listen to it. She adds, “Musician, music researcher, surgeon and human hearing expert Charles Limb is a professor at Johns Hopkins University and he studies music and the brain. And he has a theory that it is possible –– it is possible –– that the human auditory system actually evolved to hear music, because it is so much more complex than it needs to be for language alone. And if that’s true, it means that we’re hard-wired for music …there is a kind of sonic lineage to which we all belong. So the next time you are seeking percussion inspiration, look no further than your tyres, as they roll over the unusual grooves of the freeway, or the top-right burner of your stove and that strange way that it clicks as it is preparing to light. When seeking melodic inspiration, look no further than dawn and dusk avian orchestras or to the natural lilt of emphatic language….if we are listening.” sudhamahi@gmail.comWeb link: https://www.ted.com/talks/meklit_hadero_the_unexpected_beauty_of_everyday_sounds