http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/Living-the-legacy/article14010175.ece

What makes Wimbledon so special? Well, Dan Bloxham, head coach of All England Club and also Master of Ceremonies for the last nine years at the prestigious Grand Slam event, should know it well. This articulate official from one of the most revered Clubs took time off from the coaching clinics as part of the Road to Wimbledon tennis tournament for juniors being held in the City on Monday, to share his thoughts.“The intense desire to live with history, thinking well ahead of the times even while staying in touch with the rich history and keeping things as simple as possible without compromising on quality are the essential ingredients in making Wimbledon so special in the Grand Slam calendar,” says Bloxham.Providing some insight into the conduct of the championship, the head coach of All England Club, reminds that about 2000 well-trained staff including ball boys, court-changers, technical officials will be on duty to ensure that nothing goes awry. “There is apparently lot of planning which goes into the conduct of what remains one of the finest Grand Slam events despite being 138 years old,” he says with a big smile.“You know about 4000 people apply every year for the 2000 jobs related to the Wimbledon championship and some of them include highly qualified science students also. They all want to get a feel of the magic of Wimbledon and be part of history,” Bloxham pointed out.What stands out as special moments for him given his experience in the last nine editions? “Well, it has to be when our own national hero Andy (Murray) won the Wimbledon. I happened to be the first one to talk to him before the event and the last one after he won the title. That remains a very, very special edition for me.Then, when the roof comes on over the court. What a sight!,” says the proud tennis official. “Honestly, it is the committee which asks you whether you want to be the Master of Ceremonies.And, once the responsibility is accepted, it is imperative to keep up the rich traditions.The job often includes keeping the players informed about the playing conditions like heat on a given day on a particular court. All to make them feel as perfect guests,” he points out.“That is interesting. You don’t see too many advertisements during Wimbledon. We don’t need them.That is why I reiterate it is so special. From the clothing of the players to all the nitty-gritty in organising the event,” signs off Bloxham.