http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/Living-up-to-the-name/article14012145.ece

With a view to revive the charm of the night-long classical music conferences and rekindle the interest of the younger generation in our classical arts, Uma Sharma flagged off the 17th Swami Haridas-Tansen Sangeet Nritya Mahotsav organised by her Bharatiya Sangeet Sadan, Shri Ram Centre of Performing Arts and HCL Concerts at Modern School in New Delhi with her inimitable abhinay on the poetry of Meera Bai, Jan Nisar Akhtar and Mirza Ghalib.Welcoming the enthusiastic audience she reiterated, “I bring the best artistes of different gharanas as a tribute to our time-tested guru- shishya parampara, specially for the younger generation. Listening to Ustad Shujaat Khan, for instance, you would get a glimpse of Ustad Vilayat Khan, Ustad Aashish Khan would give you a feel of Ustad Ali Akbar Khan’s sarod or in Anoushka’s sitar you may have an idea of Pandit Ravi Shankar. Forget about the ‘Odd-Even’ formula of Kejriwal and come all four days to keep alive the Indian cultural ethos, traditions and values!” No wonder the Shankarlal Hall was flooded throughout the festival.Ustad Shujaat Khan, the seventh generation representative of his illustrious gharana, opened with the romantic ‘chhed-chhad’ of Yaman-Kalyan, one of the most melodious evening ragas of Hindustani music. After establishing the character of the raga in a detailed Alaap-Jod-Jhala, underlining the stylistic features of his father Ustad Vilayat Khan; he played a composition in the Addha Theka of Teentala followed by the popular bandish “Darshan deho Shankar Mahadev…” which he sang and played along. He had Arunanshu Chaudhary and Amjad Khan to accompany him on the tabla on either side. Pandit Ajoy Chakrabarty took the evening to its climax with the impressive performance of raga Abhogi and thumri Pahadi.Ashwini Bhide Deshpande’s seasoned rendition of raga Shree had staunchly authentic grip of the sombre raga and its crystal clear technical draft. The Vilambit khayal “Kahaan main Guru dhoondhan jaaun” had systematic Aalap Barhat that had commendable reach in the lower octave. The Jhaptal composition in medium tempo and the faster one in Drut Teentala were adorned with ‘Chhoot’ Taans of wide range, power and symmetry. Ashwini concluded her mesmerising recital with an emotion packed Dadra where Vinay Mishra on the harmonium and Vinod Lele on the tabla added charm.Pandit Hari Prasad Chaurasia’s flute and Ustad Aashish Khan’s sarod recital were the other attractions of the second evening.The third evening opened with the Mohan Veena of Pandit Vishwa Mohan Bhatt. Pandit Channulal Mishra who believes that one should sing a raga only till it captures and sustains the ‘Anurag’ (affection/attention) of the audience; presented a couple of khayals in raga Puriya Kalyan, a Sargam bandish,. The magical moment arrived when he invited Uma ji to join him on a Dadra ”Chhando Langar mori bahiya gaho na…” getting thunderous applause.Anoushka Shankar with Bikram Ghosh on tabla got the loudest cheers during the ‘Sawal -Jawab’ segment of her concluding Manjh Khamaj. The gifted daughter and disciple of Pandit Ravi Shankar, Anoushka had opened her recital with a brief Aalap-Jod Jhala and a Rupak Tala composition in raga Puriya Kalyan. Anoushka is an intelligent performer who knows her limits and makes the most of her capabilities. Winning accolades in her experiments abroad is quite different as compared to playing for classical connoisseurs at home. Her greatest achievement this evening was being able to remind the music lovers of her legendary father.Swami Haridas-Tansen Sangeet Nritya Samaroh concluded with the sonorous sarod of Ustad Amjad Ali Khan and his talented sons and disciples Aman Ali Khan and Ayan Ali Khan.