http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Long-winding-speeches-test-the-patience-of-audience/article14004868.ece

Speakers at meetings that discuss specific issues should not talk about other issues and more importantly make their speech brief. If not they get pulled up. This was what delegates and others who attended the valedictory session of the investors’ summit witnessed. Union Minister Y.S. Chowdary read out a prepared speech that took a long time to finish and tested the patience of audience. Union Civil Aviation Minister P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju who followed him quipped, “I don’t speak for long because I don’t have a prepared speech”. Union Minister for Petrochemicals Anantha Kumar started with a statement: “You don’t like me to talk for long after you heard Mr. Chowdary and Mr. Ashok Gajapathi Raju”.Vizag proves apoint once againIt was carnival time all over again in the ‘city of destiny’ and the Beach Road witnessed influx of people during the three-day CII partnership summit. The meet came in for appreciation by the visiting dignitaries, including top Indian and foreign delegates and 300 MoUs worth a whopping Rs. 4.50 lakh crore were signed. Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu gave Vizag a huge pat as the summit attracted a good number of top honchos in trade and industry from all over the world. Earlier the city played host to Visakha Utsav, which was a runaway hit. The city also played host to International Trade Fair and Silk Expo. Now the city is bracing for yet another mega event - International Fleet Review from February 5 in which President Pranab Mukherjee and Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be taking part. Certainly Vizag, which was battered by Cyclone Hudhud, has bounced back with gumption, proving the critics wrong.Whether CMis a strong manPoliticians leave no stone unturned to keep their leaders in good humour. Language doesn’t matter and choice of words is hardly an issue. What is important is drawing the attention of the supremo. But sometimes they cut a sorry figure by using wrong words and that was what happened in the function organized to welcome Anam Brothers into the TDP in city. An over-enthusiastic Telugu Desam leader, while praising Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu said “ Mana CM garu rojuki 18 gantalu nirveeryamgaa kashtapadutunnaru (Our CM is toiling 18 hours a day in a weak manner), much to the surprise of many. The audience burst into laughter as the speaker used the word nirveeryam (weak) in stead of nirviramamga (without break).Bye Bye, witha flower!For families travelling returning home after the Sankranti, a ride back home is usually a nightmare with the heavy rush at bus and railway stations. For the travellers at Guntur NTR Bus Station Complex, a pleasant experience was in store. Dressed in traditional attire, RTC personnel gave them a warm send off by offering them flowers. Regional Manager G. Srihari led a team of personnel as they greeted passengers at the bus stand and on buses. The efforts were meant to win public confidence in the state-run public carrier. For the RTC, which has faced desperate times, these out-of-box ideas will keep it in the race.Court orders!Who cares!After the Supreme Court and High Court directed government to take measures to prevent cockfights during Sankranti, police erected banners on the roadsides warning serious action against the violators. But, once the festivities began, no officer was visible in the villages and political leaders swarmed fields to take part in the ‘sports’. Unconfirmed reports said that police got instructions from the politicians not to disturb the cockfights. In some districts police gave publicity against cockfights and gambling through theatres and documentaries. But finally political leaders had the last laugh .(With inputs fromG. Narasimha Rao, G. Janardhan Rao,G.V.R Subba Rao,P. Samuel Jonathan and Rajulapudi Srinivas )