http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Loopholes-in-CSEZ%E2%80%99s-fire-safety-mechanism/article13987831.ece

A fire safety audit by the Department of Fire and Rescue Services has revealed major lapses in the fire safety mechanism in nearly 147 industrial units at the Cochin Special Economic Zone (CSEZ).The Hindu has a copy of the report that exposed the “grave lapses in maintaining the fire protection systems installed in these units”. The audit was carried out by the Ernakulam division of the department based on a directive by Director General, Kerala Fire and Rescue Services.“Common corridors, staircases and lift lobbies in the ground floor, first floor and second floor of the building No SDF-43/A (22.4 metres heights; five lifts) were blocked by unauthorised construction and dumping of goods. It could pose a major hindrance for the easy movement of the occupants in case of an emergency situation,” said R. Prasad, Divisional Officer, Fire and Rescue Services. The investigating officers found that the fire fighting installations in the main buildings were in a pathetic condition. The underground sump was seen empty in the first building that had ground plus four floors. All the pipe connections including control valves were rusty and defunct. The pump house could not be opened because of rusty and damaged shutters. Pumps used for fire fighting purposes were not functioning. All landing valves connected to the three risers in the building were completely out of order.Fire officials pointed out that fire ducts in the main buildings were dumped with combustible waste materials. Fire alarm devices like manual call points, alarm panel were not functioning. Smoke detectors were defunct. The hose boxes and delivery hoses were totally damaged. There were no branch pipes. Many of the landing valves and hose boxes were not accessible due to reckless dumping of different combustible materials.The Fire Department has recommended setting up a fire control room on the ground floor facilitating communication with all units in the wake of an emergency. A detailed map showing fixed fire fighting arrangements and evacuation routes have to be displayed in the control room, it said.