http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Looking-back%E2%80%A6/article14015927.ece

Conversations about the brute force of an overwhelming parliamentary democracy, the threat of autocratic rule that dwells just beneath the veneer of Indian democracy, and the inherent weakness of India’s democratic institutions were part of the discussion ‘Emergency: A Personal History’ at the JLF that saw the participation of eminent journalists and authors such as Coomi Kapoor, C. Rajamohan, Mihir Sharma, and Salil Triphati.Coomi Kapoor’s book, Emergency: A Personal History was at the centre of the discussion. She says, “I have been toying with this idea for almost three years. I decided to take a plunge when I realised that successive Congress governments had managed to whitewash much of what happened during the Emergency. I wanted these things to be brought back into the public domain.”Reminiscing about the Emergency, Salil points out: “It was one of the darkest periods of our history. People could be put in jail for minor, real or perceived offenses, and any form of political dissent was quashed. I think it is very important that we learn from that period and make all efforts to ensure that it does not happen again.”Rajamohan adds: “The pre-Emergency era was a period of radicalism and political awakening. It is a very relevant issue in this time and age since the thought process that ‘as long as a higher goal is being met, the state can have the power to quash any dissent’, still exists.” Mihir warns that our institutions remain weak and another spell of autocratic rule cannot be ruled out. “It will not be similar to the events of the 70s, but it cannot be ruled out. The same flaws in our systems that resulted in the Emergency remain till date. We have not managed to decolonise our institutions to govern a vibrant democracy such as India.” Coomi contends: “It was not a decision taken by Indira Gandhi in haste. The blueprint for the arrests of the opposition leaders and the suppression of the press were in place from January 1975, though it was put into motion only after the judgement of June 12, 1975 that unseated Indira Gandhi from the Prime Minister’s chair.”Rajamohan talks about democracy ingrained in India. “The systems may differ, but I do not think that India can be governed by anything, other than a democratic government.”Mihir also talks about the manner in which the middle class, that was fairly happy with the Emergency, claims ignorance about it. “Barring Kushwant Singh, no public figure in India ever said that it was good, though they may have supported it at that time. Politically, for all the talk of a landslide, the Congress popular vote just dipped by two percentage points in the elections held after the democracy.”Salil says, “It is important to encourage inner party democracy and keep checks and balances in place to ensure that such an incident does not happen again.”Rajmohan agrees and quips: “The same old bogeys of anti national elements taking over the country was bought out and managed to quash democratic thought. It is important that does not happen again.”