http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/Looking-beyond-odd-even/article13994020.ece

verything from congestion charges to shutting down industries are among the pollution control measures on the table, as the Delhi Government’s ambitious odd-even scheme winds up.The 15-day car-rationing experiment, which will end on Friday, was meant to cut vehicular pollution that accounts for 20 per cent of fine particulate matter (PM2.5) in the air. But, as per air quality data, the pollution level has not seen any real change. In fact, the average levels have gone up over the past 10 days. Traffic on the roads may have been less, but the real reason the odd-even scheme was implemented — reducing pollution — remains largely unaddressed.A senior Environment Department official said that after the dust settles, the government will be back to the drawing board to address non-vehicular sources of pollution.“The odd-even scheme has made it clear that people are willing to cooperate in pollution-control measures. So, we will be looking at a congestion tax. We were hesitant earlier, but now we know Delhiites will support us,” said the official.Though an official spokesperson of the government denied that congestion charges will be levied, sources within the government say it is an option that the government is looking at.Meanwhile, environmentalists say there is much to be done to improve air quality in Delhi. “We have analysed the data by both the Central and Delhi pollution control boards, and it is certain that the odd-even policy has not reduced pollution. Transport sector is just one source. The government must now focus on other sources,” said Sunil Dahiya, a campaigner on clean air for Greenpeace India.He added that strict action against polluting industries and thermal power plants in Delhi and surrounding areas must be taken. “The odd-even scheme is not a bad idea. It should be used when we have extreme weather conditions. But any plan must be comprehensive and include regional stakeholders,” said Mr. Dahiya.Drop in pollution levelsThe Delhi government’s monitoring of air quality in 18 locations on Saturday showed an improvement.The data, which was released on Sunday, showed that for the first time since the experiment began, levels of PM2.5 at many locations touched the standard of 60. Jhilmil Colony in Shahdara had a PM2.5 level of 59 microgram/m3 Experts said the dip in pollution on Saturday and Sunday was due to good wind speed and bright sun.