http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/Love-to-love-love-to-hate/article13986459.ece

“Romeo And Juliet” by William Shakespeare in Hindustani version presented by second year students of National School of Drama at Abhimanch in New Delhi recently is remarkable for bringing alive the heartrending love tragedy. A creditable achievement for the director, performers and designer, it illustrates that hatred and violence are the enemies of true love. The creative collaborators ensured the flow of action in a seamless manner with the conflict gradually mounting to a high pitch that holds the audience spellbound.Translated into Hindi by seasoned translator Amitabh Srivastava, the play tries to capture the poetry of the original. The tragedy unfolds the bloody conflict between two powerful and arch rival houses – Montague and Capulet – and their frequent clashes on the streets of the town are endangering the peace. The ruler has warned the enemies to desist from their bloody acts. Against this backdrop is revealed the passionate love story of two young people – Romeo and Juliet. Young Romeo is the son of Montague and Juliet is the daughter of Capulet, arch enemy of Montague. The clan belonging to Romeo uses simple Urdu while those belonging to Capulet speak Hindi – it is not clear why the rivals speak different languages. In the original the members of both the houses are residents of Verona, Italy and speak same language.The play is directed by Abdul Latif Khatana, a senior faculty member of NSD and eminent director of children’s theatre in the country. This is Khatana’s first venture to direct a classic for the students. Khatana’s production is suffused with youthful exuberance, energy, passion and colour, with each scene leading to another in a coherent manner.The most outstanding feature of the production is the way the set is designed by Deepankar Paul. If he had opted for a static set, acting space would have become cluttered. He has created a number of movable designs to provide the required backdrop for the action. While wheels fixed underneath, the set slide smoothly on the stage while transferring the scene. These pieces are elegantly designed to project the grandeur of high society. This device enabled the director to explore the acting space vertically. Here we watch the balcony, the street where the young people of rival houses fight with sword, we watch the house of Capulet, his chamber, the chamber of Juliet and Churchyard.The narrative takes violent twist – the friend of Romeo is killed by Tybalt, the dear cousin of Juliet. In a fit of rage Romeo kills Tybalt. For his brazen act of murder Romeo is exiled. Before leaving Verona, Romeo keeps his tryst with Juliet whom he has secretly married. Romeo climbs up through stairs and meets Juliet. The lovers have passionate meeting against the backdrop of impending tragedy. The lovers depart in the dim light of the dawn with a heavy heart. The scene moves the audience.The original play is inordinately long. To reduce the playing time to one hour and forty minutes, the director has pruned the script. He has removed chorus. But the omission of the concluding part makes the ending a bit abrupt. In fact, the ending in the original is highly meaningful. It is a resolution of the conflict. The tragedy unites two deadly enemies. Montague describes Juliet “true and faithful”, Capulet says, “As rich shall Romeo by his lady lei/ poor sacrifices for our enmity.” The concluding lines of the play; “for never was a story of more woe/than this of Juliet and her Romeo” is highly significant. The mentioning of the name of Juliet first instead of Romeo, raises Juliet to a high pedestal. But the way the director maintains the continuity of tragic mood and intensity of conflict, the production leaves a profound impact.The members of the cast in period costumes truly live their characters’ troubled emotional inner world, bringing to the fore the finer nuances of the theme of love and hate. Rukmini Sircar creates a sensitive portrait of Juliet. Her transformation from a meek and submissive girl innocent about the ways of a cruel world to a mature, bold, determined to remain true to her love for Romeo despite walls of hate and enmity erected between their love. Her Juliet evokes a sense of terrifying suspense when she watches the body of her groom, Romeo, takes his dagger and kills herself. Niranjan Nath as Romeo gives a brilliant account of himself. Babi Baruah’s Dai Ma loves Juliet and lovingly calls her “ladybird” and is her confidant and friend. From the bottom of her heart she wants to see Juliet happy. Through her movements and style of delivery she offers some humorous moments. Aamir Mallick as Capulet, the arrogant and stone-hearted father of Juliet, Monika Panwar as the mother of Juliet, a shadow of her husband and Naljit Singh as Paris, the nobleman, suitor of Juliet desperate to marry her and gets himself killed at the hands of Romeo give riveting performances.