http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Love-in-the-digital-age/article13988523.ece

Ankit Bohra’s e-Love: Terms And Conditions Applied’ is a love story about two youngsters, Ankit and Akshi, and their journey of love in today’s technology driven world. A chartered accountant at Ernst and Young by profession and a writer by passion, this is Ankit’s debut novel.At the launch of his book in Atta Galata, Koramangala, recently, he shares his thoughts about the book and his journey from being a chartered accountant to a writer when he began writing the book almost three years ago. He says his source of motivation was what he saw around him: “I’ve seen many people, including my friends, use technology to fall in love.” However, he adds that “the characters reflect the writer’s imagination,” insisting that the novel is not the story of his life. “Nowadays, everything is online. So why not love? That is how I came up with the title ‘e-love’. Usually people say love is unconditional, but I feel it is different now because love too comes with certain terms and conditions.” He aims to cater to members of this fast-paced generation, and believes that it captures and portrays the way most youngsters’ relationships function today. “Due to technology, there is nothing like time and distance now. This is not my story, it is your story,” he pointed out.Ankit speaks about the dilemmas he faced as a writer. “Being my first book, I faced a lot of challenges. One of my biggest dilemmas was if I should keep it simple and express myself, or if I should make it commercial. But I decided to keep it simple. I started writing to express myself, and so I wanted to keep it that way.” The message conveyed through the book, Ankit reflects, is that “Whatever the choices we make, we have to live with them.”Unsure of his future plans, Ankit says: “Once I receive feedback on this book, I’ll decide if I should write another one. Right now, I just want honest feedback from my readers so I can improve my writing further.”