http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Love-in-the-time-of-war/article14012064.ece

Sugankartthi gives credit for his creative streak to two things — the lush sugarcane, groundnut, coconut and paddy fields in his village of Pallipatti in Dharmapuri, and his days in the National Cadet Corps (NCC).“If the former introduced me to my poetic side and was where I devoured books, the latter taught me to channelise my talent, discipline myself, and tempered me into what I am today,” says the debut director of Moondram Ulaga Por, which releases today.The film is set in the future, and revolves around a war between India and China. It stars Sunil Kumar and Akhila Kishore in the lead, with Wilson as the antagonist.Sugankartthi came to Chennai as a young man of 21, and assisted a host of people, including Illankannan, who directed Ottran and Om. It took him 15 years to make his maiden film.“I wrote the story five years ago, and started shooting two years ago. I shot for barely 45 days; the Computer Graphics took us a year and a half. Luckily, I got encouraging producers (TRS Anbu and V. Suresh Narayan). Their faith rubbed off on me.”The director says that a lot of research went into the film, because the hero is an Army officer. “I was an NCC Senior Under Officer in college. The uniform fascinates me. I did not want any mistakes creeping into the film. If I’d not got into movies, I would have joined the Army,” he smiles.The film, says Sugankartthi, is his offering for Republic Day, because it is about loving one’s motherland.“I’m pleased with how it’s shaped up. I showed it to some people, almost like a focus group, and they liked what they saw.”The antagonist is a vital role, and Sugankartthi searched for a while to land someone who is Chinese and can act well, and suit his budget.He found it in Singapore-based Wilson, who plays a Chinese officer.Sugankartthi already has his next script ready. “I would like to start work after some months. It will be very different from Moondram… I’m particular there must be very little influences in an original creation. Even Moondram… is new in thought.”Though he is a newcomer, he has managed to cast actors with some calibre.“I give my artistes and crew a lot of freedom. I never interfere and they give me what I want,” says Sugankartthi.The film opens in more than 100 theatres, and the team plans to soon release a dubbed version in Telugu.