http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Love-for-the-divine-costs-high/article14005123.ece

Love for the divine could come at a high price. And in this case, it’s Rs. 77,77,777.Padmini, wife of former Deputy Chief Minister Damodar Rajanarasimha, had the wisest of plans to develop a temple located near Sangareddy in Medak district from where her husband hails. At the laddu (prasadam) auction held after the celestial wedding or kalyanotsavam held at Vaikuntapuram temple, Ms. Padmini, the highest bidder, clinched the deal, winning the blessed prasadam.Ms. Padmini, who hopes that she could contribute towards developing the temple on the lines of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam, apparently returned home feeling satisfied at having taken care of her divine calling. The bid that had started at Rs. 24 lakh rose in terms of stakes as no one was ready to give up their claim on the prasadam.Whatever be the price of the auctioned laddu, it might take some time for the temple to develop on the lines of Tirumala.Slanging match on developmentWith the GHMC election fever enveloping the twin cities, it’s a no holds barred slanging match among who really ‘developed’ the city. Soon, the debate and discussions went on to present the level of cleanliness in the capital city. Of course, the ruling TRS had a head start with its extensive hoardings, buntings and party flags dotting all major roads and intersections.The pink hues all around without giving any space for other ‘colours’ did get the goat of the ruling party’s main adversary – Telugu Desam-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) combine. Senior BJP leader K. Laxman wondered aloud what had happened to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s assurance of ensuring that all political flags, cut-outs, flexis and banners would be removed without any mercy. “What happened to the cleanliness campaign during Swachh Hyderabad? Do we have to see only TRS and CM’s hoardings on roads? He wants to wipe out any Opposition, but people are not fools. They are with us,” he thundered.Minister has every reason to be happyTransport Minister P. Mahender Reddy has every reason to be happy with the ruling TRS, the party to which he defected from Telugu Desam before the 2014 general elections. The TRS government recently issued the essentiality certificate in favour of the Minister-owned Patnam Mahender Reddy Institute of Medical Sciences for setting up of a medical college with an intake of 150 students. Mr. Reddy is already the chairman of an educational society that runs three engineering colleges in Ranga Reddy district.This is the third essentiality certificate issued by the TRS government for medical colleges in the State in the private sector. Two other private medical colleges in Medak and one in the government sector in Mahabubnagar were proposed by the government.Mr. Reddy’s brother Narender Reddy was recently elected the Member of Legislative Council and his wife is the chairperson of the Ranga Reddy Zilla Parishad.Maiden appointments doneThe Telangana State Public Service Commission (TSPSC), which is in the nascent stage of its establishment, has completed the maiden appointments to government service, filling up 14 of the 16 posts of Assistant Executive Engineer (Mechanical) notified for recruitment in various departments.The Commission successfully conducted a computer-based written exam for over 9,000 candidates in October and selected 33 of them for personal interviews last month. The transparent manner in which the written exam was held in colleges where there were a large number of computer terminals invited appreciation from several public service commissions in the country.TSGENCO owes Rs. 2,000 cr. to SCCLThe Telangana State Power Generation Corporation owes more than Rs. 2,000 crore to the Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) towards arrears of coal supplied by the latter to power generating stations of the corporation. The mounting debt is partly attributed to the failure of the Telangana State Transmission Corporation to pay GENCO for power supplied to the distribution companies.The TRANSCO and GENCO have gone slow on payments to Singareni in order to purchase power and coal from private players. The Singareni generally collects money in advance from private power utilities for supply of coal. In the case of the government-owned institutions, however, the money has to be paid within a week of supplies. But, Singareni has apparently given a long rope to GENCO.– Reporting by Nikhila Henry, V. Geetanath & N. Rahul