http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/chennai/LPG-subsidy-withdrawal-may-hit-household-budgets/article13977485.ece

LPG consumers, including government employees, bank staff and those employed in private sectors are worried about the recent announcement withdrawing subsidy for those earning more than Rs. 10 lakh annually. At present rates, consumers will be forced to shell out Rs. 3,000 in a year additionally on 12 refills of cooking gas.“If you calculate based on last year’s subsidy rates, since this year the subsidy has come down, consumers will have to pay up to Rs. 6,000 more annually, which is quite a hefty sum, especially when you take into consideration the amount we spend on education and other expenses,” said G. Murugan, a government employee, adding that last year the Central government made all LPG consumers link their bank accounts with the LPG IDs, which will now be a wasted exercise.K. Krishnan, secretary, Bank Employees Federation of India, said subsidy was a small thing that the government gave in return for the tax paid by the salaried class. “Why should the salaried class be made to bear the cross… Our tax goes towards nation-building. The government can provide subsidised or even free gas to those in BPL category with the taxes we pay,” he said.Differential pricing for the same product will lead to malpractices, opined K. Balasubramanian, general secretary, All India State Government Employees Confederation.“Till a decade ago, those holding lakhs of rupees were considered rich. But with today’s cost of living that is not much. In homes of government employees, even if both husband and wife earn, they spend more on transport, communication and other things. They should tax the corporates,” he said.Chellasamy, general secretary, Tamil Nadu Elders Welfare Association, said a small section of senior citizens is likely to be affected by this move. “All senior citizens should be exempted from this as they have recurring medical expenses,” he said.Oil company sources said that the modalities for not providing LPG subsidy have not yet been fixed. There are a total of 1.54 crore LPG consumers in Tamil Nadu.