http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/kozhikode/Lyrical-beauty-brings-hope-to-Malayalam-music/article13980080.ece

: Sometimes, a work of art comes along and blows you away with its sheer beauty. You cherish its beauty even more when it arrives at a time of decadence.That is what has happened with Kathirunnu kathirunnu… , the incredibly haunting melody from Ennu Ninte Moideen . Very rarely do you find such meaningful lines tuned as sweetly and rendered with as much finesse. Even more rarely you would find these days such a beautiful song climbing the popularity charts.The success of Kathirunnu kathirunnu… , therefore, offers hope for Malayalam film music, which has been languishing for the last few years. Composers like G. Devarajan, M.S. Baburaj, Johnson and Raveendran and lyricists like Vayalar, P. Bhaskaran and O.N.V. Kurup had ensured that Malayalam film music was second to none.Over the last few years though, there have been very few songs that you wanted to listen over and over. That is why Kathirunnu kathirunnu… becomes special.Its composer M. Jayachandran admits that no song has given him as much recognition. “Singer Shreya Ghoshal, who was my only choice for the song, told me the other day that her mother listens to it several times every day,” he says. “Veteran playback singer Bhupinder Singh complimented me on its composition. I had faith in the song, but I could not imagine that it would touch so many hearts; the main credit for it goes to lyricist Rafeeq Ahmed.”Rafeeq has indeed done a brilliant job; it is hardly surprising though, for he had already proved that he was the best lyricist of his generation. “He had written the song after I gave him the tune, says Jayachandran. “I did not have to change a single word.”Rafeeq’s poignant words, about a woman’s love, longing and loneliness, were given the perfection expression by Shreya. She has been one of the busiest singers in Malayalam for quite some time, but this is undoubtedly her finest effort.The film’s stunning success at the box office also helped the song widen its reach. “There were times when I feared the song might never reach the audience,” says Jayachandran. “The song was recorded a year-and-a-half ago and there so many issues with the production of the film that I wondered whether it would be released at all.”No song in recent times has conquered the Malayali listener like the way kathirunnu kathirunnu…