http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Mad-about-the-movies/article14003238.ece

Cinema Pranthan (CP) was born on a Friday, the film release day, three years ago. The name literally means ‘mad about cinema’. Started as a Facebook page and on Twitter, it now has a website, WhatsApp radio and will soon launch a magazine and an app – dedicated to all things cinema. It is committed to promoting not just the Malayalam film industry but also the other Indian film industries - Cinema Paithiyam (Tamil), Cinema Pitchodu (Telugu), Cinema Pagal (Bollywood) and Cinema Psycho (Hollywood). “I couldn’t find a CP-word for mad in Kannada. On a serious note – it’s a very different kind of industry. There isn’t much scope for online content” says Sajid Yahya, whose digital marketing company Web Dinkan, conceptualised CP.“The Pranthan (crazy/mad man) promotes the film industry…a film like Chennai Express’ collection at the box-office was worth, in money terms, more than our entire industry put together. We want to promote our industry, promote our films,” he adds. There isn’t any film gossip, just film news that covers all aspects related to films and film trivia. The personal is just birthdays, marriages and the like.Sajid is excited about the eponymous magazine which will, if all goes well, be out late next month. The format of magazine will be similar to that of the website.The website is an interesting mix – of events, releases, collection figures, trivia and columns and even a section, complete with photos, dedicated to the ‘Cinema Mohi’, film industry aspirants. The company also plays a public relations role with helping film makers plan the publicity strategy.Sticking to its film promotion role, “and we get serious flak for it”, the FB page only announces the release of films, shying away from making any comments on a film’s worth. The ‘pranthan goes numb’, as the website states.“If a film is bad, we’d rather keep quiet. We do not want to damage whatever chances it might have at the box office. A mad man or tramp is the last person to offend…which is why we call ourselves Cinema Pranthan. There is no face or personality attached to it and nobody has a beef with a ‘pranthan’. I would like to clarify, we are not critics.”For the time the language for transaction is English for all industries, except for the Malayalam page, though long term plans include generating content in Tamil and Telugu for more reachability.An eight-member team of movie buffs puts together the content for CP which is culled from its many sources in the industry. CP’s clout is such, Sajid says, that it has access to most actors and technicians. The twenty five fake FB profiles of CP point to its popularity as a vehicle of publicity. Content posted and the response is monitored with a strict no-abusive language and no defamatory content policy.Being involved in the online/digital promotion of films, plans are afoot to give a serious take on films and the industry. “We have serious followers who expect us to provide serious content and we want to cater to that audience. At some point I want to move away from the PR role.”To keep the website interesting and interactive it has an online auction. It recently auctioned a kurta, for a hefty amount, worn by Dulquer Salman in Charlie. Now on auction is the Bolex camera used by Fahadh Faasil in Monsoon Mangoes. “The proceeds from the auction go to charity of the winning bidder’s choice.”