http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/tamil-nadu/MADURAI-TODAY/article14014777.ece

RELIGIONSelva Vinayagar Temple : Thiruarutpa Agaval parayanam and annadhanam, Railway Colony, 4.30 p.m.Sri Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple : Theppa Thiruvizha, 11th day event, deity procession, 9 a.m. and 2 p.m.Solaimalai Murugan Temple : Thaipusa Thiruvizha, eighth day event, deity procession, Solaimalai Mandapam, Alagarkoil, 10.45 a.m. and 6.30 p.m.Thiruvalluvar Mandram : Discourse on ‘Sundarar Thirupattu’ by R. Umarani, S.S. Colony, 5 p.m.Panniru Thirumurai Mandram : Thirupugazh Sinthanai Vattam meeting, Sri Thandayuthapani Temple, Iravadanallur, 5 p.m.Gita Bhavanam : 68th anniversary, 45-day yagna, Kamarajar Salai, 7.30 a.m.Young Men’s Brahmins’ Association : Sri Vishnu Sahasranama parayanam and puja, No. 21 Sambandamoorthy Street, 6 p.m.Sri Swami Tatwananda Ashram : Gita class by Swami Samanandar, P and T Nagar, 6:45 p.m.CULTUREThirunavukkarasar Music Trust : Free Thevaram music class by Dr. T. Suresh Sivan, Thiruvavaduthurai Adheena Madam, Dhanappa Mudali Street, 6 p.m.International Sivananda Yoga Vedanta Centre : Yoga and meditation classes, 444 KK Nagar East Ninth Street, 6 a.m., 6.30 p.m., and 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. (for women).Prajapita Brahma Kumaris Ishwariya Vishwa Vidyalaya : Free rajayoga meditation classes, 36 Meenakshi Nagar, P and T Nagar, 40 Sambandamoorthy Street, 47 B CMR Road and 357 Anna Nagar, 6.30 a.m. and 5.30 p.m.Yoga Research Centre : Yoga training by S. Yoganand, Department of Philosophy, The Madura College, 6.30 a.m.Iyalnilai Yoga Trust : Yoga demonstration for awareness, Meenakshi Amman Nagar, Surya Nagar, 6 p.m.GENERALLawyers Association of Madurai District Court : Third State Law Seminar, Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Chief Justice of Madras High Court, chief guest, Raja Muthiah Mandram, 10:35 a.m.Centre for Advocating Research and Education : Inaugural session of fourth workshop on SARFAESI Act, inaugural address by Justice V. Ramasubramanian of the Madras High Court, presidential address by R.S. Garg, Executive Director of National Housing Bank, Poppys Hotel, 9:30 a.m.MRR. MAVMM. Matriculation Higher Secondary School : 24th annual day celebrations, B. Rohini Ramdas, Additional Collector, Madurai, chief guest, S. Kanagasundaram–Amutha Auditorium, 5 p.m.Ruby Matriculation Higher Secondary School : 33rd Athletic Meet, M. Rajarajan, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Headquarters), Madurai City, chief guest, The Madura College Ground, 10 a.m.Idhayam Rajendran Residential Higher Secondary School : Annual Utsav and 17th annual day, Vimal Memorial Outdoor Auditorium, 5 p.m.Mannar Thirumalai Naicker College : Guest lecture on ‘IAS career awareness’, Moorthy Naidu Andalammal Hall, 9 a.m.Mannar Thirumalai Naicker College : Department of English, guest lecture on ‘Mannar Thirumalai Naicker’s 433rd birth anniversary’, College Auditorium, 10 a.m.N.M.S. Sermathai Vasan College for Women: Department of English and Vergal (Roots) Education Trust, International conference on “The Role of Literature in Social Upliftment: Need of New Perspectives,” Seminar Hall, 10 a.m.Thiagaraja College: Youth Red Cross Society organises Netaji Subash Chandra Bose birth anniversary, Principal M. Eyini, Dean (Curriculum Development) and Head, Department of Economics S. Kanagasabai speak, New Block Auditorium, 10.30 a.m.Gandhi memorial Museum : Two-day conference on ‘Works of Arutselvar’, Library Hall, 10 a.m.Kaviarasu Kannadasan Narpani Mandram : Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose birth anniversary celebrations, Netaji statue premises, Netaji Road, 8:50 p.m.Sakthi - Vidiyal : Periodic medical check-up for Vidiyal children, Vidiyal Centre, Rathinapuram, 5 p.m.Alcoholics Anonymous : Meeting, Quality Care Hospital, Ellis Nagar, 7 p.m.; 14, Vaidyanatha Iyer Street, Shenoy Nagar, 7 p.m.; St. Antony Church, R.C. School, R.C. Nagar, Palanganatham, 7.30 p.m.