http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/news/Maharashtra-halves-number-of-permits-for-constructions/article13978765.ece

Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis released a new set of guidelines for construction projects, cutting down total compliance requirements to nearly half as part of the government’s ‘Ease of Doing Business’ agenda.The ‘Construction Permit Guideline Manual’ prepared by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) was released by Fadnavis on Saturday. Developers will now require 58 certifications as against existing 119, a reduction of 52% in approvals, no objection certificates (NOCs) and BMC remarks.A single project will now get approval within 60 days as against a year, officials said.The Chief Minister said the changes could have a direct impact not only on cost of flats in Mumbai but even encourage developers to promote affordable housing in the future.This is part of the State’s continuous efforts towards providing efficient, timely and hassle free services to citizens, he said while claiming that all municipalities have been directed to work on publishing such manuals.“We kept in mind speed and transparency in removing compliances that have become obsolete. The benefit will eventually be passed on to the buyers as it is likely the developers will have to shell out less interest on pending projects, thereby reducing burden on both parties,” the Chief Minister said.Among other changes, the scrutiny fee and charges, which are paid at 89 different stages of the project, will now be paid at any one single point of the project life. Self certification for many other services will not be accepted by the corporation. “Mumbai and Delhi’s efforts in business reforms usually contribute immensely towards global ratings. We are hopeful, World Bank and the likes will take note of this,” he said.New guidelinesCurrently 119 approvals/NOCs/remarks are required. With the new guidelines, the number has been reduced to 58 (a 52 per cent reduction)Now, approval/NOC/remarks will run parallel. This will cut down total approval time from about 365 days to 60 daysCurrently, scrutiny fees and other payments need to be made at 89 different stages with each department having its own calculation method. Now, all the payments are ‘auto calculated’ during submission of application and their payments are accepted at one locationAll certifications are currently done by BMC. Now, plumbing, electrical and mechanical remarks will</p><p>be accepted from consultants. Self certification for certain services will be accepted