http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/Major-drop-in-road-fatalities-over-25-years/article13996347.ece

Though Delhi’s population has boomed over the past 25 years and the number of vehicles on roads increased exponentially, there has been a marked dip in road fatalities.From 19 deaths per one lakh population in 1990, the fatality rate dipped to less than nine in 2015, revealed the 25-year data compiled by the Delhi Police.With 1,622 deaths in road accidents, 2015 recorded the lowest number of fatalities in the past 25 years, against 1,670 in 1990. While the difference might not appear substantial in terms of absolute numbers, the police say the city’s population and steep increase in vehicles must be taken into consideration.Thus, the fatality rate per one lakh population gains prominence given that at 1.81 crore, the city’s population has more than doubled in 25 years. More alarming is the number of motor vehicles that have flooded the roads in this time. Against 17.6 lakh vehicles in 1990, there were over 92.5 lakh motor vehicles on Delhi’s roads last year.The number of fatal accidents per 10,000 vehicles has come down to less than one-fifth against the figures in 1990. So, while more than nine persons were killed per 10,000 vehicles 25 years ago, 2015 saw just 1.75 such deaths.However, the improvement has not been gradual. While there is a steady decline in the fatality rate over the last five years or so, there were two phases — 1995-2000 and 2005-2011 — that witnessed a sudden increase in road accident deaths.Terming the decline a “major achievement”, Special Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Muktesh Chander credited the “regular analysis” by the police as one of the reasons behind the fatalities as a major contributor towards the same.“Every year, we study patterns behind deaths. We identify the kinds of people who were killed, what caused their deaths and then systematically work upon the findings,” Mr. Chander told The Hindu.“Since a lot of deaths were taking place during the night hours, we increased police presence in those hours. We acted against Blueline and cluster buses, which were major contributors to the same. We worked on safety of cyclists, motorcyclists and pedestrians too,” said Mr. Chander.Improving road engineering, clamping down on drunk or rash drivers and enforcing helmet and seat belt rules were among other contributors, he added.Traffic jams in the city have slowed down the speed of vehicles, but police say more congestion does not mean more safety. “Speed by itself does not kill,” said an officer.While the statistics have impressed road safety experts, they say a lot more needs to be done, particularly in terms of infrastructural improvements.“In the absence of obstruction-free footpaths, pedestrians continue to get killed. The city still does not believe in lane driving,” said International Road Federation chairman K.K. Kapila.