http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Making-the-extra-mile/article14012042.ece

Chloë Grace Moretz plays Cassie, a teenager caught in an awful world in The 5th Wave, set to hit our screens on January 22. Directed by J. Blakeson based on Rick Yancey’s popular novel of the same name, the young adult sci-fi thriller tells of Cassie’s fight to save her brother from evil aliens. In Cancun, Mexico, the 18-year-old actor spoke of her role and women–centric films as well as how much more needs to be done.Excerpts:Who do you play in The 5th Wave?I play a young girl named Cassie who is a typical, ordinary girl, except when you put her in these extraordinary circumstances. She doesn’t back down for anything if it comes between her and her brother.Could you relate to the brother-sister angle?I could. My family is the biggest thing in my entire life. We’ve been a unit, always. That was one of the things I gravitated towards when I read the book. This isn’t a love triangle, or a story about whether or not she wants to kiss that guy or the other guy. This is a love story between a brother and a sister who are fighting for each other to live, to survive, to exist.You said you can relate to the tenacity of the character. Can you remember specific situations where you’ve been particularly tenacious?I think every role you book you have to be particularly tenacious. Just recently I went on this long process of auditioning and I haven’t done that in a while and it was kind of fun to get back into it and be competitive, fight for a role. I think that my tenacity has been ingrained in me by mother.Did you learn any new skills on this movie?Usually I train so much, and am always learning something new. But then, on this film, I actually had to revoke everything I had been trained for. So when I’m walking around with this big M16 assault rifle around my neck, my character would be afraid of it.Did you like the fact that your character is just an ordinary girl?Yeah, it’s nice to see those ordinary characters. I mean, it’s out of the realms of possibility as an audience when you go in and see the superhero. None of us are that special. So it’s nice to see a story about a young girl who we can all relate to. I often play the extraordinary teenager who is facing fantasy, so it is nice to play a character closer to home, honestly, someone who has some real human aspects to them.How do you react to when you get refused for a role?I feel blessed because when I lost a role, I booked an even better one. It was like having to accept my fault because a better door opens 100 per cent of the time. I chalk it up to hard work.Are roles getting more women centric?Of course. I did Carrie and then I did Clouds of Sils Maria with Juliette Binoche and Kristen Stewart. Directors, studio heads and producers are building movies around us, like Bridesmaids, and audiences want that. We are not making these movies to make a point, they are huge blockbuster movies making millions of dollars. Audiences are ready for that.Do you think a lot about diversity?I think about it in every meeting I have, every casting decision I have. Let’s get some ethnicity in there, let’s get some reality in there. Even if you live in a small town, there is diversity that they’re still not putting on screen and it is very frustrating because we are stifling society.Do you have any creative input into your character?Of course! As I grow up I’m getting more creative input. But even then when I work with a male actor he will always have more input than I do. I’ve worked just as much as some of my male counterparts and they are listened to more than I am. I literally have to run 10 more laps compared to them. They run two.Do you think about being a director?I’m already starting my production company and I’m looking into getting behind the scenes.If we are making those decisions first then we will make the movies we want to make. So much out there is just popcorn bliss.It seems a good time in the industry for young actresses...Yes, it is nice to be able to be an 18-year-old girl right now in this industry because I don’t have to play the damsel in distress and let everyone save me. I can actually be the one running through the forest, saving my brother, trying to piece it all back together, because that’s what women are. I grew up with four older brothers. I was always the girl in the family and I grew up fighting against that stereotype.Have you seen a change in the kind of roles that are being made available to you?I get offered everything from the girl next door, to the best friend, to the mean girl, and even the strong no nonsense action hero. While I do see a nice shift in roles being written for young women, I don’t always see those films get financed and made. I try and search out the most interesting roles and stories for my characters and then champion those to be produced.