http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/fashion/Making-faces-in-2016/article14022751.ece

Strobing, metallic eyeshadow, plumped-up matte lips, galaxy hair and glitter made sure that everyone was “on fleek” in 2015. But fashion is fickle, and every season, a gamut of techniques and styles, both new and repurposed, come into play. Here’s the latest lookbook, as defined by experts.Hair Women:Very soft textures, blended colours and tousled, slight waves are the order of the day, says Dhruv Abichandani of L’Oreal Professionnel Dream Team. In the city to train stylists from Page 3 Salon, the hairstylist also recommends asymmetric crops for short hair and really high ponytails for longer hair. “Even with long hair, people are trying to put in some soft layers and some shorter front bits, like a fringe instead of straight cuts. If they are not up for shortening their length but want a change, colour is a brilliant solution, because you can look completely different,” he says.Speaking of colour, he adds, “Internationally, the in colour this season is lavender; unfortunately, it’s not the easiest thing to do on Indian hair. But we are working with a lot of iridescent reflects, like mauve and purple notes. In India, we do shades of brown, since it is a fabulous colour. Mocha, for example, works really well with Indian skin and hair. It brings softness into really dark hair without making it too dramatic.”Men:“The pompadour, the quiff (a hairstyle that combines the 1950s pompadour hairstyle, the 50s flattop, and sometimes a mohawk), a lot of undercuts, shorter sides and playing around with the length on top are popular now,” says Dhruv. He’s not a fan of the man-bun, and is quite happy to see its decline this year. As for men’s colour, he recommends “not very dramatic or contrasting colours. Try more natural tones with a reflect, something that just shines in the sunlight.”He also hopes that more people will opt for natural hair instead of straightening or relaxing, as it gives them more freedom to try different styles.MakeupDon’t throw away your classic lip shades, glitter shadows and voluminous glam lashes — they are not going anywhere this year, despite making a splash in 2015, says popular Chennai-based makeup artiste Prakruthi Ananth of Prakatwork.However, for everyday wear, go in for casual, non-dramatic makeup and clear, nourished skin. She advises, “Use moisturiser, primer and BB or CC cream for that nude, no makeup look. Keep the eyes simple, with a sweep of long-wear eyeshadow in nude browns or soft pinks. Personally, nailing a thin liner is time-consuming; instead, use smudged kohl either on top or the bottom. Then add mascara. For lips, use matte nude browns or pinks.”LipsInvest in lip liners, as lining the lip gives it a more enhanced shape. Prakruthi explains, “Lining keeps lipstick from smudging or melting out of the lips. Slightly overdrawing the lips and adding a dollop of gloss on the centre of the upper and lower lip gives it a fuller appearance. To make sure you don’t go overboard, pick a liner as close or a shade darker to the lipstick shade as possible. Stick to the natural shape of your lip and do not alter it with harsh lines.”Bridal“I always believe you should wear what you are comfortable with, and wear a look that is an extension of your personality, in order to feel your confident best, without looking like an entirely different person,” says Prakruthi. Having said that, she adds that there is no harm in trying to experiment with looks and trends during a makeup trial to see what suits you best.Natural-looking, radiant skin is in, and whiter, cakey, heavy makeup is totally out, she says. What’s totally in are “loads of golds, bronzes and coppers that are flattering and complement our Indian skin tone very well.” Winged liner and a generous amount of jet-black kohl make eyes stand out, and seem well-defined and expressive. “Airbrush makeup is trending, since it helps makeup stay long through all the sweating, humidity and long hours without needing to worry about touch-ups, smudging or budging,” she says.Achieve the nude lookFaceStart with a well-moisturised face, and continue with a primer to keep the makeup in place. Top with a matching foundation and a peach undertone concealer. Dust loose finishing powder to set the base for a matte finish. Sweep the cheeks with a matte dusty rose or soft peach for a radiant, flushed look.EyesUse light brown eyeshadow and skip dramatic liners. Finish the look with generous coats of mascara and soft brown kohl smudged in the bottom waterline.LipsUse a lipstick in neutral brown or pink that looks like a brighter version of your lips