http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Thiruvananthapuram/Make-best-use-of-GIAN-says-Smriti/article14000918.ece

Union Minister for Human Resource Development Smriti Irani has urged higher educational institutions to make the best use of the Global Initiative of Academic Network (GIAN) launched with a view to bringing in reputed academicians, entrepreneurs, and scientists from abroad for teaching in Centrally recognised institutes in the country.GIAN, an initiative of the Union Ministry of Human Resource Development, aims at tapping the academic talent pool internationally available and to encourage them to engage with institutes of higher learning here to elevate the country’s scientific and technological capacity to global excellence.Inaugurating the new campus of the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) at Vithura, which is at the foothills of the Ponmudi hills here on Thursday, Ms. Irnai said the new initiative seeks to invite experts from renowned foreign institutes to teach in the higher educational institutions in the country for seven days. “I appeal to the institutes to use the opportunity to make the best use of this offer. The students without paying any additional fee can use the opportunity to equip their skills and get international exposure. This will help students explore new scientific horizons,” she said. Vinay Sheel Oberoi, Secretary, Department of Higher Education, in his address said the GIAN initiative had started getting response with premier institutes from India and abroad entering into an understanding for collaboration in teaching and research.The Ministry was working with reputed institutes in the U.S., the U.K., Germany, and Austria to send their faculties to teach at IISER here. “The Minister is working on the initiative. Probably by June it will be clear. The initiative is not only for teaching but for future collaboration as well,” he said.Speaking at the inaugural function, Chief Minister Oommen Chandy extended all assistance towards the development of the institute. He promised to develop roads leading to the 200-acre campus.