http://www.thehindu.com/business/Industry/Making-truck-driving-aspirational-the-Tata-way/article14022744.ece

To make trucking aspirational for Indian drivers and to retain its market leadership position in India,Tata Motors Ltd has announced the latest edition of the T1 Prima Truck Racing Championship 2016 to be held on March 20, 2016, at India’s F1 race track – the Buddh International Circuit (BIC), Greater Noida. The company has been organizing T1 truck racing championships in India since 2014 with an objective to make it as popular as F1 car racing events. European truck makers have been organizing T1 racing events in Europe for over 20 years now and before they could have got the ownership of the event here in India, Tata Motors moved ahead and signed up with FIA (Federation Internationale de l’Automobile) which is the apex body for motor sport events, for the rights in India. Like in the previous two seasons, the Season III of the championship will continue to host experienced international drivers representing six teams, featuring 12 Tata PRIMA race trucks built for the purpose. However, this year there will be a race for Indian truck driver for the first time. Tata Motors conceptualized and introduced a new Indian Truck Driver Race selection and training program, based on its objective of making the profession of truck driving aspirational and at the same time act as a catalyst to induct drivers into the commercial vehicles profession, the company said in a statement. These Indian Truck Drivers will be selected from a pool of truck drivers who are employed with Tata Motors key customers all over the country. In all, Tata Motors will have 12 Indian truck drivers selected to race at the T1 Prima Truck Racing Championship 2016, the company added.    “T1 Prima Truck Racing Championship, is a much-awaited calendar event and one of the most pioneering in the country’s commercial vehicle industry and India’s motorsports history. Ever since it was first introduced in 2014, T1 has proved to be a great platform to showcase the prowess of the Indian commercial vehicles industry and that of Tata Motors, and Season III presents us with a great opportunity to launch our next big initiative – Indian Race Truck drivers,” Ravindra Pisharody, Executive Director, Commercial Vehicle Business Unit, said in a statement.  Earlier speaking to  The Hindu, Mr. Pisharody stated, “To ensure that what the Europeans (truck manufacturers) are doing in their countries, we, as the market leader, wanted to do it in India. The F1 car racing track is there in India. With our efforts, for the first time the truck people were able to enter a very prestigious world class racing circuit. And this will continue now. We have created teams which are from our sponsors. It is a very exciting thing.” The T1 Prima Truck Racing Championship is organized by MMSC (Madras Motor Sports Club) and is inscribed on the calendars of FIA and FMSCI (the Federation of Motor Sports Clubs of India) making the event truly global. This year there will be two categories - Super Class, comprising of Indian race truck drivers and Pro Class, comprising of internationally acclaimed drivers with proven expertise in the field of Truck Racing, like the British Truck Racing and European Truck Racing championships. Already popular in the Western world, the T1 sporting event is gradually getting prominence here in India. In the 2015 event over 50,000 enthusiasts cheered at the event and this year the number is expected to grow.