http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/tamil-nadu/Making-it-big-by-speaking/article13980693.ece

Unlike platform speakers, who address hundreds of public meetings but largely remain in the fringes till the end, quite a few party spokespersons have made it big on the political firmament from Tamil Nadu.Former Union Minister Jayanthi Natarajan, who is presently out of politics, had had a meteoric rise within the Congress and the Tamil Maanila Congress, starting off as a spokesperson. Though she is the granddaughter of former Chief Minister M. Bhaktavatsalam and leader of the Opposition late Ramasamy Mudaliar, her political career reached new heights not in Chennai, but in Delhi as the spokesperson of the Congress. An alumna of the Church Park Convent and the Madras Law College, an articulate Ms. Natarajan first became a Union Minister in the United Front government as a member of the TMC and later in the UPA Government.Likewise, her former colleague in the Congress and TMC, B.S. Gnanadesikan, a lawyer by training, had a knack for handling the media. He was probably the first spokesperson of a political party in Tamil Nadu and would regularly interact with journalists at the Sathyamurthy Bhavan when the TMC was in its formative years in the latter half of 1990s. He twice entered the Rajya Sabha and also became the president of the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee. He is now with the TMC headed by Moopanar’s son G.K. Vasan.>Also read: Their masters' voice - how the sacking of Nanjil Sampath puts the focus on the tight rope walk that party spokespersons are expected to doT.K.S. Elangovan, the DMK’s spokesperson, too won recognition from the leadership and got elected to the Lok Sabha in 2009 and was given a ticket from the South Chennai constituency in 2014. He is the son of T.K. Srinivasan, a DMK ideologue, popularly known as Thathuvamedhai Srinivasan, who was one of the speakers at DMK leader M. Karunanidhi’s marriage.In the ruling AIADMK, one of its spokespersons and yesteryear film actor C.R. Saraswathi is fast emerging as a familiar figure. From an unassuming character playing tambura for Srividya in K. Balachandar’s Apoorva Ragangal to an ubiquitous face on satellite channels representing the ruling AIADMK, she has come a long way. She was first noticed in the MDMK and has become prominent after joining the AIADMK, where she is hopping across television channels defending the party and countering critics in both Tamil and English.