http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Visakhapatnam/Make-use-of-demographic-dividend-Naidu-tells-youth/article13997333.ece

Quoting the sloka from the ‘Katha Upanishad’ ‘Arise, awake and stop not till the goal is reached’, which was popularised by Swami Vivekananda, Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu has called upon the youth to rise to the occasion and make full use of the demographic dividend of the country.He was speaking on the occasion of birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda, which is also celebrated as the National Youth Day, across the country, on Tuesday at a function organised by Ramakrishna Mission at Andhra University Convocation Hall.He said the next 30 years was crucial for India and the country could become the number one nation in the world, if the demographic dividend was utilised effectively. “India is a resourceful country, with a dynamic young population. Most of the top countries in Europe and Asia, including Japan and China have an aging population and India can play a major role,” said Mr. Chandrababu Naidu.According to him post bifurcation, the State has been facing a number of difficulties, but he plans to make AP a hub for education.“Through education, we intend to make AP the number one State in the country. We have already initiated a number of top institutes in the State such as the IIM, IIT, IISER and NIT. A few more such as the Petroleum University, AIIMS and Tribal University, will be coming up soon. Further, we have plans to start innovative universities such as Logistic University, Energy University, Water Resource University in the near future,” he said.On the Ramakrishna Mission and its work, the Chief Minister said the organisation lives up to its ideals of spreading love, selfless service, sacrifice, discipline and truthfulness. Quoting an incident he said, “When I was the Chief Minister in my earlier stint, there was a devastating flood in Konaseema area and a bridge was washed away. We needed someone to build the bridge and we asked RK Mission to do it. They not only did it in time, but for the first time in my political life, I saw someone returning the unspent amount with full transparency - that summarises RK Mission.”MP K. Haribabu, secretary of RK Mission - Visakhapatnam Swami Atmavidananda and Dr. Subrahmanyam, former principal of Vivekananda College, Tamil Nadu, spoke.