http://www.thehindu.com/sport/Malhotra-for-blend-of-autonomy-with-accountability/article13990442.ece

A fine blend of autonomy with accountability has been viewed as the way forward for sports in the country by the All India Council of Sports (AICS) which had its first meeting in the Capital.Addressing the media on Saturday, the president of AICS, Prof. Vijay Kumar Malhotra, who has quit as the president of the Archery Association of India, said that the national federations had the right to autonomy, but there was an understandable stress on accountability, for the progress of sports in the country.Even though some of the prominent sports personalities like Sachin Tendulkar were unable to attend the meeting owing to various reasons, Prof. Malhotra said that most of the members made it a fruitful meeting with constructive suggestions.Looking at the immediate task of faring well in the Rio Olympics, for which 60 had qualified including the hockey teams of men and women, Prof. Malhotra said that more sportspersons were expected to qualify for the Games and take the number to about 90.Stating that broad-basing of sports and setting up of about one million sports clubs across the country, particularly in thousands of villages to tap rural strength, the AICS president opined that the sports budget had to be about 12,500 crore rupees instead of the current allocation of about 900 crore rupees.Apart from the government funds, it was agreed that corporate houses and States should adopt one or two sports disciplines each and support them extensively. It was felt that the rewards for medals in prestigious international competitions should be uniform across the country, from the current situation of different States rewarding in different scales for similar achievements.It was also stressed that the disputes in the various national federations like boxing need to be addressed quickly and immediate steps taken to resolve the issues. On the doping front, it was stated that ‘out of competition’ testing should be strengthened and awareness created among the athletes.Prominent among the many recommendations were, the setting up of specialised sports academy for differently abled sportspersons; introduction of sports science subjects in medical colleges and incorporation of yoga in all wellness programmes; promotion of indigenous games and martial arts in association with the Ministry of Culture.The meeting was attended by sports personalities P.T. Usha, Kunjarani Devi and Lima Ram, officials of the Union Sports Ministry and the Sports Authority of India (SAI), president of the Indian Olympic Association (IOA), N. Ramachandran, president of Indian Sports Medicine Federation, Dr. P.S.M. Chandran, Vice-Chancellor of Lakshmibai National Institute of Physical Education, Gwalior, Dr. Dilip K. Dureha, Commissioner of Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan, S.K. Mall, former Sports Minister of Uttarakhand, Narayan Singh Rana, among others.The AICS put on record its gratitude to the former Union Ministrer for Youth Affairs and Sports, Mani Shankar Aiyar, for sharing the comprehensive National Sports Policy; the IOA president N. Ramachandran, Members of Parliament Dr. T. Subarami Reddy and Sona Ram Choudhury, sports journalists M.S. Unnikrishnan and K.P. Mohan, and Principal Secretary, Government of Karnataka, Kapila Mohan, for their valuable suggestions.