http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Malayalam-music-composer-Gopi-Sunder-is-in-demand/article13999493.ece

The Cochin-born Gopi Sunder has become a hot favourite with Telugu directors. He has composed music for Malli Malli Idhi Rani Roju, Bhale Bhale Magadivoy, Seetamma Andalu Ramayya Sitralu, Oopiri and is doing a few more. It wasn't an easy journey for him and he says, “It took 14 years to come to the mainstream. I was in the 6th standard when I decided to be a musician. Music is something that is inherent in you, mum is a great listener of the radio and I was listening to it too. I was humming once for a drama at school and I heard another person started humming too, I then found myself composing for the drama. That felt nice. I was not good at studies and was a big headache for my parents. I was also assisting Ouseppachan, a well-known music director in Kerala, my father's classmate and my guru. I was playing the tabla for him and from there the journey began but it took 14 years since then to make a name for myself.”He adds, “I was 29 when I composed music for Note Book. I got an opportunity when I was 24 to work for a film but I didn't because I knew I didn't have the stuff in me to go beyond five films. I wanted to be fully equipped, know everything thoroughly before stepping in. Malli Malli fetched a lot of fans in Andhra Pradesh and Bhale Bhale Magadivoy stretched that space in their hearts. There is a misconception that Telugu people like only mass numbers. They enjoy all kinds, fast numbers or even melodies. Seetamma Andalu Ramayya Sitralu is a very good love story. When the director Srinivas came to me OopiriI told him I have absolutely no time to do it and he said if I wouldn't do it he would use all my music from Malayalam films; he won't go back empty handed. He doesn't speak English and narrated the story in Telugu but from his actions I understood the plot. He kept saying, ‘Sir, please Sir..first listen to the story.’ I fell for his passion for cinema.”He adds, “People in the Telugu film industry are listening to my old work in Malayalam and asking for something similar in Telugu. Malayalam industry is five years ahead be it in concept, stories, music etc than Tamil and Telugu industries. Youngsters are doing a good job there. I like the way the Telugu industry treats the artiste, they almost worship you.”In the last two years, the music director has come up with an impressive body of work. In 2014, 22 films released; in 2015, he composed music for 17 films.Of late, he has been making actors sing for his films, a move that is working big time. “It’s unprofessional to say I am doing a film because I like it. I must be able to dish out equally good music for all kind of films. When I first made an actor sing, it was to raise curiosity. I found that actors are able to give output with the exact expression of the character. For professional singers who come for an hour, you have to explain the characters in the film. If a hero is good at fighting, will a fight master use a dupe? So if a hero can sing, why should I use someone else to do the job? Singers have their own space but sometimes if there is a small song that the hero can sing, we can use him for that natural feel.”