http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/Malavika-as-lovelorn-Meera/article13999476.ece

During the Margazhi season, there is often an overlap with different artists performing same compositions at different venues. It’s only the approach and handling that can give the presentation a fresh perspective. This was evident in Malavika Sarukkai’s Meera bhajan.In her visualisation of the piece, tuned beautifully by vocalist Murli Parthasarathy in Gaud Sarang, Meera was portrayed as a lovelorn woman and not the mystic saint, an image that is embedded in the collective psyche, nurtured by M.S. Subbulakshmi’s celluloid version of Meera. There were moments of sheer poetic imagery in Malavika’s performance, where every depiction brought Krishna home, to her heart.To some swara passages, composed evocatively, the dancer’s sancharis, beginning with the strains of Krishna’s flute enveloping her heart and slowly blossoming into a lotus with a bee soaking in the nectar, was an intense depiction of love.Malavika began with ‘Tandaveshana’ in Hamsadhwani, which depicted the creation of the first sounds, ‘That Di Thom Nom’. The dancer showcased Siva’s tandava nritya and scattering of the bells, the sounds of these bells transforming into the rhythm of percussion instruments, which in turn morphs into the udukkai in Siva’s hands in a beautifully choreographed sequence.Swati Thirunal’s composition ‘Sumasayaka’ in Kapi, of a pining nayika, was dealt with the appropriate abhinaya suited to the emotion in the lyrics. But the jati korvais were a bit too long. The fast tempo and cross-rhythm between the musicians and the dancer, distracted the rasikas from focussing on the sthayi bhava of the song.Though Malavika is known for her perfection in movements and footwork, there were moments in the performance, when the elbows drooped and the movements seemed aggressive, especially during fast-paced passages. The Lalgudi thillana in Mohanakalyani was a fitting finale. Murli Parthasarathy’s singing was melodic but too soft at times. Srilatha (cymbals), Balaji (mridangam), Srilakshmi Venkatramani (violin), Sruti Sagar (flute) and Lakshminarayanan (tambura) provided support.