http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/Mamata-announces-list-of-candidates/article14145449.ece

West Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee, who > released the party’s candidates’ list for the coming Assembly election on Friday, launched a scathing attack on the Left-Congress alliance in the State, and vowed to campaign in Kerala to “expose the lack of morality” of the two parties which are fighting each other in that State.The list announced by Ms. Banerjee was a balanced one by accommodating all sections of the electorate, indicating that she was not taking any chances in the wake of the Congress-Left alliance. The list includes 57 candidates from the minority community, which at 19.3 per cent is marginally up from 17.2 per cent in 2011.The number of female candidates is 45. which stands at 15 per cent, marginally up from 14.5 percent in the last Assembly poll. Ms. Banerjee will contest from Bhawanipore seat in the city.Elaborating on her determination to campaign in Kerala, she said, “I will certainly go to Kerala to expose the CPI(M) and the Congress and their unethical alliance in Bengal…because I want to give a message to the people of Kerala about the lack of morality of the two parties”, Ms Banerjee said. The CPI(M) and the Congress had entered into “a joint venture”, thus turning “the Kerala election into a farce”.“Is there a need to hold elections in Kerala? No. The CPI(M) and the Congress can equally divide the seats among themselves”, she said.Within a couple of hours of the >Election Commission of India (ECI) announcing the schedule for the polls in four States and one Union territory, Ms. Banerjee announced the list.Madan Mitra too in frayThe most significant name on the list is — Madan Mitra who is behind bars for his alleged involvement in the Saradha scam. Mr. Mitra will be contesting from the Kamarhati Assembly seat from where he was elected in 2011. The party has retained all the Ministers. Almost all the leaders from the Opposition parties who in the past five years have switched their loyalties and joined the Trinamool have been given ticket. The party has also accommodated Siduqullah Chowdhury, a prominent minority leader and Harka Bahadur Chettri, a former Gorkha Janmukti Morcha MLA from Kalimpong.The TMC list has a touch of glamour with former sports persons and film stars. Former national cricketer Laxmi Ratan Shukla will contest from Howrah North Assembly seat, while late cricket administrator Jagmohan Dalmiya's daughter Vaishali Dalmiya will be the candidate for Bally in the same district. Bengali film actor Sohom is the only name from the film industry on the list and he has got the ticket for Barjora in Bankura district. Singer Indranil Sen, who unsuccessfully contested the Lok Sabha elelction, has also been nominated from Hooghly district.Former national football captain Bhaichung Bhutia, who lost the Lok Sabha poll two years back, will contest from Siliguri and renowned footballer, Syed Rahim Nabi, is the candidate for Pandua in Hooghly.