http://www.thehindu.com/entertainment/Man-gets-censor-board-to-watch-paint-dry-%E2%80%93-for-10-hours/article14024560.ece

If you have 607 minutes to spare in your otherwise healthy and purposeful life, there is a movie out now that we highly recommend. 'Paint Drying' gives you exactly what it says in the title, white paint drying on a brick wall – a full 10 hours of it.No, it is not an attempt to elucidate the existential crisis of modern urban life or to delineate the loneliness of the last emperor penguin in the Antarctic. It has a more practical and glorious purpose to it: to give the British Board of Film Classification (BBFC) a hard time.The filmmaker (if you can call him that. We prefer evil genius) Charlie Lyne, made the film to protest against censorship and mandatory rating by the BBFC. If BBFC sounds abnormally similar to CBFC to you, we guarantee that the resemblance is purely coincidental.It is mandatory that the BBFC should watch every film from start to end before giving it a rating. Cue Lyne with evil laugh. As the censors have to be paid per minute of film seen, Lyne started a Kickstarter campaign to fund it.Pls support my Kickstarter campaign to make the UK's film censorship board watch paint dry >https://t.co/JQmhtcmMzs>pic.twitter.com/nSu6nd2Z1F— Charlie Lyne (@charlielyne) >November 16, 2015As it is the general nature of Internet to ensure the survival of the most absurd, the campaign got enough funds to ensure a 10-hour session. The only saving grace for the hapless BBFC censors was that they are only allowed to watch nine hours of films a day. So it took them two days to give the all-clear.£5,936 well spent. >pic.twitter.com/DKfufcr4qk— Charlie Lyne (@charlielyne) >January 26, 2016The unfortunate censors might be the only two to have watched the film in its entirety, since Lyne himself admitted in a Reddit AMA that he didn’t bother to put himself through it. So the BBFC can rest assures that no Directors Cut will follow.The closest parallel in recent Indian cinema would be 'Dilwale', which at 2 hours and 38 minutes, felt like an eternity.(Source: Mashable.com, Washington Post)