http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Mangalore/Mangaluru-likely-to-get-plastic-park-in-two-years/article13992925.ece

The port city may get a plastic park within two years under a Union government scheme.Five months after the Union government wrote to the State to send a preliminary proposal on setting up the park here, the State is now acting on making it a reality. It has identified land at two places on the outskirts of the city.The project is expected to be cleared at the three-day Invest Karnataka 2016 to be held in Bengaluru from February 4.Once the project is cleared, it will enable setting up of industries manufacturing plastic products including pipes, buckets, medical industry products, water tankers, tooth brush, chairs, tables, plastic recycling units and the like in a given area of land.According to Gokuldas Nayak, Joint Director, District Industries Centre, the land has been identified at Mudipu in Bantwal taluk and Shibaroor in Mangaluru taluk.B.A. Nazeer, president, Canara Plastics Manufacturers’ and Traders Association (CPMTA), said that the association had demanded 200 acres to set up at least 100 industries.In that case the industries would provide employment to 10,000 persons, both skilled and non-skilled workers.He said that the Union government would provide Rs. 40 crore as grant-in-aid for the project. The setting up of the park might cost Rs. 300 crore.Mr. Nayak said that the grant of the Union government would be for creating common facilities in the park required for industries. Once the land was levelled, sites would be created and give to industries.Earlier, the Director of Union Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilisers wrote to the Additional Chief Secretary, State Department of Industries and Commerce on July 27, 2015 to send the proposal. It was in response to a letter by the CPMTA.Acting on this, the Joint Director of the State Department of Industries and Commerce in a December 18, 2015 letter wrote to the DIC, Mangaluru and the CPMTA to identify land required for the park and send a proposal.Mr. Nazeer said the Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada has agreed to the proposal.The project is expected to be cleared at the three-day Invest Karnataka 2016 to be held in BengaluruThe Union government will provide Rs. 40 crore asgrant-in-aid for the project