http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Mandya-SP-transferred-to-CID/article13976238.ece

Superintendent of Police Bhushan Gulabrao Borase was on Friday transferred to the Criminal Investigation Department (CID).Mr. Borase, a 2009-batch IPS officer from Maharashtra, had been working in Mandya since February 27, 2013.The State government has transferred him as the Superintendent of Police, Cyber Crime (CID), and according to sources in the office of the Director-General and Inspector-General at Bengaluru, he will assume charge shortly.Mr. Borase had made Mandya district police feel proud by developing a software to trace the owners of unclaimed vehicles lying in police stations. The software — Effective vehicles database management to trace the owners of unclaimed vehicles — a first-of-its-kind in the State, had bagged the Union government’s prestigious gold medal and a cash award in the category of ‘Best district-level initiative in citizen-centric service’ in 2015.The Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances had felicitated Mr. Borase.Mr. Borase had launched ‘Bus Gate’, a drive to prevent men from boarding buses from front doors, to ensure women’s safety in KSRTC buses, He had introduced ‘WhatsApp’ on 9480804800, a service to receive complaints/information related to law and order situation. Another initiative was the “Locked house beat system” to prevent possible thefts. He introduced four all-in-one sophisticated vehicles for highway patrolling and traffic regulation. Mr. Borase was instrumental in the removal of over 80 unscientifically laid speed breakers on the Bengaluru-Mysuru highway, installation of median barricades for the protection of pedestrians on the Bengaluru-Mysuru highway and intensifying of patrolling during nights.The National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) had implemented several suggestions of Mr. Borase, including the removal of plants from the median and installation of collapsible barricades along the Bengaluru-Mysuru highway.The district police have recovered about Rs. 10-crore-worth stolen properties after Mr. Borase assumed charge as Superintendent of Police, say senior police officials. “Mandya is a nice district to work,” Mr. Borase told The Hindu. Sudheer Kumar Reddy, who was working as Superintendent of Police in Bidar district, has been posted as Mandya SP.Mandya is a nice district to work.Bhushan Gulabrao Borase,who has been transferred as Superintendent of Police,Cyber Crime (CID)