http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/dance/Many-moods-of-the-margam/article14012116.ece

The senior disciple of Chitra Visweswaran, Lakshmi Ramaswamy chose to present a margam for Brahma Gana Sabha.The day she performed was navami and she began her presentation with the Nava Durga Stotram, representing the nine myriad forms of the goddess, Sailaputri, Brahmacharini, Chandraganta, Kushmanda, Skanthamatha, Kathyayani, Kalarathri, Mahagauri and Siddhidatri. This Sanskrit composition, in Amrithavarshini, was creatively choreographed by Lakshmi bringing out the mood of each form.Lakshmi then moved on to sabdam in Ragamalika, addressed to Manmatha. Her depiction of his consort Rati in a chariot driven by a parrot and Kama Deva being chided by young women lamenting about the absence of their beloved was gentle. This ragamalika was in Tamil penned by scholar Dr. Raghuraman and tuned by vocalist Vanathi Raghuraman.Margam is not complete without the traditional varnam, or the main piece. Lakshmi took up a Telugu song ‘Rara, muddula chilaka’ by Sankaranarayanan, in Ragamalika, which was quite new. Rajkumar Bharathi had tastefully tuned the stanzas of this varnam. The nayika thinks the parrot is the best messenger to be sent to the mother goddess. The dancer’s portrayal of the goddess and destruction of the demon Mahishasura in sancharis brought out appropriately the essence of the words. . However, the interwoven jathis could have been pruned to make the varnam crisp.The Telugu padam ‘Nanne penladu’ was about the lovelorn young woman, who was jealous of the women in Krishna’s company. This Kshetrayya padam in Ragamalika was a sringara piece with a tinge of humour. (‘You marry me. You do not have to worry if my parents demand dowry. I will arrange it’).Lakshmi took up the ancient Tamil text Mukkoodar Pallu in which the two wives of a farmer argue with each other — one a worshipper of Vishnu, while the other of Siva. The conflict between the two women brought out different facets of the Supreme. A folksy number full of gaiety and mocking humour, it was tuned by Vanathi Raghuraman.Lakshmi concluded her recital with verses from Madhurashtakam, describing Lord Krishna. The dancer had combined thillana with the verses, the choreography of which was by her guru, while it was tuned by Pt. Visweswaran in Brindavana Saranga.Since Lakshmi danced to recorded music, she had the entire stage to herself. The credit for the melodiously tuned music should go to Rajkumar Bharathi, while the vocal support was by Veeraraghavan. Vedakrishna Ram provided mridangam support and the nattuvangam with jathis were by Guru Bharadwaj. J.B. Sruti Sagar’s flute was an added asset.Violin by Ananthakrishnan and veena by Bhavani Prasad blended beautifully with the musical score of each piece. However, the acoustics was not soothing to the ear.