http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/Man-alleges-torture-jumps-off-police-station-terrace/article13996333.ece

After allegedly being assaulted with batons during questioning, 23-year-old Pankaj was warned of sustained overnight torture and asked to pay a bribe at the Ambedkar Nagar police station. This led the victim, a shopkeeper, to jump from the third floor of the building on Monday night.Pankaj has sustained several injuries, including fractures, due to the fall.Two police constables have been suspended following the incident and allegations are being probed, said the police.Pankaj was called to the police station in connection with a mobile theft case as the stolen article was purportedly traced to be in his possession.In a video shot at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), where he is currently undergoing treatment, Pankaj can be heard saying: “Constable Rajkumar had hit my legs with batons some three to four times, then he made me squat for a long time and hit me again. I got scared and felt totally hopeless when I heard him telling someone on the phone that I would be tortured the whole night. He dragged me towards the window of the room from where I jumped out.”His family members added that after the fear of being subjected to harsh treatment in case he failed to pay Rs. 50,000 was instilled in him, Pankaj considered suicide as the only option to save himself from torture and humiliation.Deputy Commissioner of Police (South East) M.S. Randhawa said that following a preliminary inquiry, two constables — Rajkumar and Sonu — who failed to prevent the incident were suspended. They may be dismissed if the allegations are found true, he added.Mr. Randhawa added that it was through technical surveillance that the details of a stolen phone were matched to Pankaj’s phone and he was called to explain the same. Sonu had taken a break when the incident took place, it is learnt.Another police officer added that whether it was a lapse or the allegations made are true would only be established after the departmental inquiry is initiated.The alleged case of police excess is a suitable one to come under the purview of the National Human Rights Commission. The NHRC takes cognisance of media reports where a prima facie violation of Protection of Human Rights Act is observed. Pankaj received a phone call and was called to the police station for questioning which, according to Delhi High Court advocate R.K. Saini, was arbitrary and illegal.“Personally calling without any written notice was illegal and arbitrary.“The notice issued by the Investigating Officer of the case has to be served in writing and the person has to be intimated about the timings and date when he or she has to appear,” said Mr. Saini who has been an active campaigner against police excesses.On the legal options available for Pankaj, Mr. Saini said that the victim can approach the NHRC or even lodge a police complaint to get a case registered. Another Delhi Police officer added that while in the case of custodial death, an inquest by a sub-divisional magistrate inquest or a judicial magistrate’s probe is initiated depending on the circumstances, in cases of injuries, only departmental action is initiated.“If medical report establishes grievous hurt caused by policemen or probe confirms that the actions amounted to abetting an attempted suicide, cognisable offences are made out,” said Mr. Saini.