http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Mantapa-to-have-an-eye-catching-look/article13998213.ece

The Ananda Tirtha Mantapa, where the important Paryaya Durbar function and cultural programmes will be held, is being constructed at the Rajangana parking space here.Vishwesha Tirtha Swami of Pejawar Mutt will be ascending the Paryaya Peetha for a record fifth time at the 800-year-old Sri Krishna Mutt/ Temple here on January 18.The mantapa will have in its background the look of a traditional Tulunadu house with some modifications. It is being constructed both for conducting cultural programmes from January 14 to 16 and from January 18 to 24, and also the Paraya Durbar function, on the morning of January 18.It will be able to accommodate about 10,000 persons. Already, traditional doors have been fixed to the mantapa. The fibre pillars have been designed like traditional wooden pillars. Two brass statues of Lord Krishna would be placed in two windows made on either side of the stage.A series of idols as placed on the Brahma Ratha, would be placed on the top tier of the State. About 1,000 cloth lanterns have already been installed throughout the mantapa. Pictures on canvas depicting the life and times on Lord Krishna would be installed throughout the mantapa.M. Mohan Alva, Working President of Paryaya Reception Committee and incharge of decoration of the Mantapa staged told The Hindu that on the Durbar Day (January 18), the stage would be decorated with flowers of different types.“We will be getting 5,700 kg of marigold just for decoration. You can imagine how many kilograms of other flowers will be getting for decorating the stage and the entire mantapa,” he said.“The whole idea is not just to ensure the beauty of the stage and mantapa but also to make sure that everyone in the audience is able to watch the proceedings. We will see to it that the flower decorated stage and mantapa is ready by 2 a.m. on January 18,” he said.Mr. Alva was himself on the floor of the mantapa here on Wednesday, giving directions to the tailor on different types of designs.