http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Many-politicians-trying-for-party-ticket-for-kith-and-kin/article14023810.ece

The kith and kin of several senior politicians and elected representatives of Hassan are planning to venture into the political arena through the zilla panchayat elections scheduled for next month. The MLAs, who enjoy clout in their party and influence in their constituencies, are lobbying for ticket for their children and relatives. There is a long list of such candidates from both the Janata Dal (Secular) and the Congress, waiting for party ticket.According to sources in the Janata Dal (Secular), which has a strong base in the district, H.S. Prakash, Hassan MLA, has expressed his desire to field his son Swaroop from Kandali Zilla Panchayat constituency in Hassan. C.N. Balakrishna, Shravanabelagola MLA, is fielding his wife Kusuma from one of the constituencies in Channarayapatna taluk. Ms. Kusuma is already a member of the zilla panchayat council. It is said that Mr. Balakrishna’s brother, Puttaswamy, is also an aspirant for D. Kalenahalli constituency. Mr. Balakrishna too had begun his political career as a member of the zilla panchayat. He was also the president of Hassan Zilla Panchayat before contesting the polls from Shravanabelagola Assembly constituency.In Holenarsipur, according to the party sources, H.D. Revanna, MLA and a veteran leader of the Janata Dal (Secular), is planning to field his son, Prajwal Revanna, in the Halekote constituency. However, he does not seem to have made any public statement in this regard. Mr. Prajwal has been involving in political activities for the last three-four years. He had campaigned for his father during the 2013 Assembly elections and for his grandfather H.D. Deve Gowda during the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. In fact, Mr. Revanna too began his political career from the zilla panchayat-level.In the Congress circles too, there are many contenders from within the family of noted leaders. A. Manju, Minister for Sericulture and Animal Husbandry and in-charge of Hassan, is thinking of fielding his son Manthar Gowda from Ramanthapura constituency in Arkalgud taluk. Dr. Manthar Gowda has already been active in politics. He is now the president of the district unit of the party’s youth wing. The list of Congress ticket aspirants includes Shreyas, grandson of late G. Puttaswamy Gowda, the former Minister and bete-noire of Mr. Deve Gowda. Puttaswamy Gowda’s daughter-in-law Anupama Mahesh contested the last State assembly elections from Holenarsipur. Ms. Rajeshwari, the daughter-in-law of H.C. Srikantaiah, former Minister and senior leader of the Congress, is said to be an aspirant for Gowdagere constituency in Channarayapatna taluk.Senior politicians consider zilla panchayat as the entry-point for their family members.H.S. Prakash, Hassan MLA from JD(S), wants to field his son Swaroop from Kandali Zilla Panchayat in HassanC.N. Balakrishna, Shravanabelagola MLA, fielding his wife Kusuma from a constituency in Channarayapatna talukH.D. Revanna hasn’t revealed his plan to field his son Prajwal Revanna from HalekoteA. Manju, Minister for Sericulture and Animal Husbandry, plans to field his son Manthar Gowda from Ramanthapura in Arkalgud taluk