http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Thiruvananthapuram/Mani-will-have-to-wait/article14002728.ece

: The delay in disposing of the bar bribery case will cause a lot of political discomfiture to Kerala Congress (M) leader K.M. Mani, who has been expecting an early verdict that will absolve him of the charges and prepare the ground to return to his job.The Vigilance court, which considered the final report of the Vigilance and Anti-corruption Bureau (VACB) absolving Mr. Mani of the bribery charges, posted the case for February 16 for further hearing, making it certain that Mr. Mani would have to wait.By the time the court holds the next sitting on February 16, the State would have inched closer to the Assembly elections, leaving hardly any time for him to resume his work, if at all the court accepts the report. The Finance portfolio, along with Law and Housing, is still lying vacant, awaiting a favourable court verdict for him to take it all back.The main task of a Finance Minister — budget presentation — will most probably be over by February 16, leaving little charm in it.The delay in getting a clean chit will also deprive him of the political leverage to restore confidence in his party workers after the credibility loss the party and its leader had to suffer following the bar bribery case and the resignation that followed later. Kerala Congress (M) sources said a favourable verdict would have improved its position when the time comes for the seat-sharing talks in the Assembly elections. Political circles here expect the Election Commission to declare the election date on March 1, a move that will bring the code of conduct into force. Party sources said that Mr. Mani had already taken a decision not to return to office even if he were to get a favourable verdict.In the meantime, the Kerala Congress (M) has decided to field Jose K. Mani, Mr. Mani’s son, into the thick of a political campaign by launching an indefinite stir in Kottayam on Monday demanding the Centre to take firm action to save rubber farmers.Bar case delay will deprive Mani of an opportunity to restore confidence in party workers.