http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/Man-held-for-molesting-woman-on-Kolkata-flight/article13994223.ece

A 53-year-old man from Gurgaon was arrested at Kolkata airport on Monday morning for allegedly molesting a female co-passenger in an IndiGo flight from Delhi.The accused, Sanjay Kando, boarded the Delhi-Kolkata flight from Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport at 7.15 a.m. Around 9.15 a.m., when the flight was approaching to land at Kolkata airport, he allegedly molested a female passenger, a resident of South Delhi’s Greater Kailash, sitting next to him.“The incident of unruly behaviour was reported today morning on IndiGo flight 6E-219, Delhi to Kolkata. While descending, a woman passenger who was seated on 9F had raised concern against a co-passenger for touching her objectionably,” a spokesperson of the private carrier said.The passenger objected to Mr. Kando’s alleged behaviour and raised the issue with the flight’s cabin crew. The crew on-board conveyed the concern to the airline security staff and the Central Industrial Security Forcethe spokesperson said.“IndiGo personnel accompanied the parties to the police station and a criminal complaint has been lodged. The matter is being investigated by the authorities concerned,” the spokesperson said.The accused was arrested as soon as the flight landed at Kolkata’s Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose International Airport.“The accused Sanjay Kando (53) is from Gurgaon. He was arrested in Kolkata,” Additional Deputy Commissioner of Airport Police Shivani Tewari told The Hindu. She also said a complaint of “outraging the modesty of woman” has been lodged against the accused.The accused was produced before the Barrackpore Chief Judicial Magistrates Court in North 24 Paraganas District later in the day.He was released on bail, Ms. Tewari said.“At IndiGo, any untoward act which compromises the dignity of passengers or crew is a serious concern. We deeply regret the inconvenience caused to the woman passenger on board,” the airline spokesperson said.