http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/kozhikode/Mananchira-on-restoration-path/article14017586.ece

: The steps around Mananchira have witnessed many changes. There used to be a time when people counted the steps visible above the water to assess the severity of summer. However, the new generation of Kozhikode had never seen those steps as they were covered in bushes, until Saturday.In a seven-hour-long ordeal, volunteers of Niravu Residents Association, Vengeri, cleared the bushes on one side of Mananchira to reveal the steps, that haven’t seen light in decades. This, incidentally, is Niravu’s way of celebrating its 10{+t}{+h}anniversary.“Mananchira is part of our heritage. Niravu has always believed in action rather than speech and restoring Mananchira to its original glory is the best way we could celebrate 10 years of promoting cleanliness,” said Babu Parambath, project coordinator of Niravu. On Saturday, 10 trained volunteers, assisted by student volunteers from the Indian Institute of Management-Kozhikode cleaned the steps on the Northern side of the pond. In five days, the other sides would be cleaned. The steps will be brought to its original glory.Keeping up with its style, Niravu collected the plastic found beneath the bushy undergrowth in bags, to be sent to the recycling plant. The organic waste, including the bushes and the silt deposited on the steps, will be taken to Niravu’s organic farm in Kakkoor where it will be converted into organic manure. The group also plans to conduct regular maintenance of the pond premises.The project is estimated to cost Rs.2 lakh, which will be taken from the funds Niravu earned through various awards. Though there was no formal inauguration of the cleaning programme, the Mayor, Deputy Mayor and other councillors of the Kozhikode Municipal Corporation dropped by throughout the day to extend their support and take an oath to replicate the work in their respective wards. Niravu has partnered with the IIM-K in the forthcoming Calicut Mini Marathon 2016, organised on the theme of compassion on February 28. “We will deploy 100 volunteers who will ensure that no garbage is produced before, after or during the marathon or its preparatory events”, Mr. Parambath said.