http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Many-complaints-of-violation/article13992949.ece

Although the authorities have claimed that they permitted sand extraction as per rules, there have been increasing number of complaints and protests against what people say are illegal sand extraction in different places in Udupi district.According to information provided by the Department of Mines and Geology, the District Sand Monitoring Committee has permitted the extraction of sand in sand bars in 18 places under the Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) areas.Of these 18 places, 11 are in Udupi taluk, while seven are in Kundapur taluk. The seven sand bars in Kundapur taluk are located in Hosadu, Maravanthe, Tallur-Anagalli, Kundapur Kasaba, Hattiangady, Anagalli and Kirimanjeshwara.The 11 sand bars in Udupi taluk are located in Balakudru-Varamballi, Pandeshwara, Baikady, Moodutonse, Harady, Uppoor (three survey numbers), Handady-Kuchur, Belampalli and Mattu.Though eight sand blocks have been identified in non-CRZ areas in the district, the Public Works Department has not called for tenders yet.Only manual sand extraction is permitted in the district. Though the committee has imposed stringent conditions for sand extraction, there are complaints of violations.People in some villages have also protested against illegal sand extraction in the last three months. The complaints range from extension of extraction from given areas, riverbank erosion posing danger to houses and plantations, decline in fish catch and increase in the depth of rivers.Sandeep Hebbar, an agriculturist from Maravanthe, said that sand extraction in the nearby Souparnika river was posing a danger to his coconut plantations and house. Four big boats, with a capacity to store about 500 buckets of sand, were berthed in the river.Workers from north India were extracting approximately 7,500 buckets of sand daily, which was then transported by trucks to other places, he said. “Though we complained to the Deputy Commissioner, the Kundapur tahsildar and the gram panchayat, no action is forthcoming,” he said.Sand extraction done close to bridges is yet another problem. S. Janardhan, resident of Marvanthe, said that sand extraction was taking place close to the bridge at Maraswamy near Nada, which was dangerous. Extraction is banned up to 500 m on either side of bridges. “Clandestine sand extraction goes on. Nobody wants to take on those breaking the rules,” he said.Birti Rajesh Shetty, member of Varamballi Gram Panchayat, said that though the licence was taken in the name of one person, others too carried out sand extraction.About a 100 sand-laden trucks moved out between 3 a.m. and 6 a.m. to avoid catching people’s attention in the Airody-Varamballi belt. Their movement was also damaging roads. “We have staged protests, and drawn the attention of the elected representatives and the officials, but nothing has happened,” he said.