http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Mandali-led-committee-to-look-into-Roja%E2%80%99s-suspension/article13978719.ece

: A committee headed by Assembly Deputy Speaker Mandali Buddha Prasad and comprising members from the tree principal parties in the Assembly has been constituted to examine the suspension of YSR Congress member R.K. Roja from the service of the House for one year.The committee will have T. Sravan Kumar of the Telugu Desam Party, G. Srikanth Reddy of the main Opposition YSR Congress and Vishnu Kumar Raju of the BJP as its members.The committee will examine the proceedings in the House on December 18, the day when Ms. Roja was suspended for one year after reportedly using abusive language against the ruling party members, including Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu.The committee is also expected to study the behaviour of the members during the fifth and sixth sessions of the Legislative Assembly and recommend measures that should be followed by the members to maintain decency and decorum of the House. It has been asked to inquire as to how the proceedings of the House were leaked to the social media before the Speaker agreed to give copies of the proceedings to the political parties.First meet onJan. 5 or 6The constitution of the committee comes in the light of an assurance given by Assembly Speaker Kodela Sivaprasada Rao after the suspension of Ms. Roja led to strong protests from the Opposition benches.The YSRC members were firm that the Chair could not suspend the member for a year going by the rule position and threatened to take legal recourse after the Treasury Benches rejected the request of reducing the suspension period.The issue raised a furore in the House and the YSRC members subsequently boycotted the last two days of the session.According to sources, the committee headed by Mr. Buddha Prasad had been asked to examine the proceedings and submit its report in 20 days. The first meeting of the panel is likely to be held on either January 5 or 6.