http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/Maoist-landmine-blast-kills-two-BSF-men-in-Odisha/article13988493.ece

Two Border Security Force (BSF) personnel were killed and another was injured in a landmine blast by Maoists in Kaliajhula jungle under Boipariguda police station limits of Koraput district in Odisha on Friday afternoon.This incident occurred while the BSF personnel were continuing combing operation in the region following murder of a trader named Bapi Samant at Dandabadi village in the same police station area late Thursday. The landmine blast went off three to four km from Dandabadi.According to police sources, the slain BSF personnel were identified as jawan Sibasish Panda and deputy commandant Sunil Behera. The slain BSF personnel had been first shifted to Boipariguda hospital for immediate medical support before they were to be shifted to Koraput district hospital. The injured BSF man is being shifted to Koraput district hospital.Maoists from adjoining Chhatisgarh are suspected to be behind this ambush on BSF personnel and the murder of the civilian on previous night. At late night on Thursday a group of around 50 armed Maoists had reached Dandabadi village and forcefully entered the house of Samant. He and his wife were tied up and Bapi was paraded around the village. Later he was shot dead from close range by the ultras. The naxalites also burnt down a mini truck of Samant and looted his shop at the village. The Maoists are alleged to have taken away gold ornaments from house of the deceased. They left behind posters alleging Samant was a police informer. As per eyewitnesses from their conversation it was evident that the Maoists were not residents of Odisha but from adjoining Chhatisgarh. Following this murder, the BSF personnel had started combing operation in adjoining jungle area of Dandabadi village, and the landmine blast occurred inside Kaliajhula jungle.Following intensification of anti-Maoist operations in bordering Malkangiri district of Odisha and adjoining region of Chhatisgarh State, Maoists from Chhatisgarh have started eyeing Boipariguda area as a strategic location. In December 2015 Maoists had damaged three mobile communication towers in Boipariguda police station area alleging them to be tools of anti-Maoist operations.It may be noted that Nuapada-Mainpur division of outlawed CPI (Maoist) organization which is controlled by Chhatisgarh cadres has given a bandh call on Friday in Nuapara, Kalahandi and Nabarangpur districts to protest against continuing anti-Maoist operations. For it security has been heightened in the region.