http://www.thehindu.com/books/Mapping-inner-spaces/article13986290.ece

Exhilarating and alarming would be useful words to describe Unni R.’s short story collection titled Oru Bhayangara Kamukan. His stories seem to echo the here and nowhere, heaven and hell, erotic and terrifying aspects of the ordinary, mundane experiences of our day-to-day life. It is a fascinating collection of stories that arouse the readers’ curiosity even while withholding a conventional tale’s customary climaxes.Discarding the stiffness of literary Malayalam, the richly evocative colloquial speech of erstwhile Central Travancore is a pleasure to read. The style and plot might rankle some readers and baffle many but it is a veritable treat to lovers of literariness. Many of these stories often choose their literary precursors, referring back to great writers, artists, books, art and painting. From the Biblical Lot, to Sartre’s Giacometti, the Dalit activist Poikayil Appachan, Marcel Duchamp and the Bavarian writer Sebald, these stories are haunted by presences and absences that try to shape the unruly flow of language.A story like ‘Divine Comedy’, while definitely reminding the reader of Dante and his medieval Italian classic, is a travesty of death and remembering.Oru Bhayangara Kamukan is profoundly sensual. And yet, even while revelling in the body and its secret desires, it manages to unravel landscapes of inner space. The story in the end is also a revelation that our quests for one meaning or one truth is doomed to failure in a world where there can only be multiple interpretations. But what is most interesting is that the story is also deliberately and deceptively casual, a strategy calculated to create an impression that art does not offer answers to the mysteries of the life, it only heightens the effect.Unni does not attempt to cloak religion or caste in the garb of modernity but teases out their nuances, their organic functions, and the maps of inequality and hypocrisy, within which they were and continues to be located. The author has made a mark on the art of the short story in Malayalam. He seems to flaunt his art of sculpting the well wrought story, juggling with images, painting with words, sharpening the tools for chiselling the correct phrase.(A column on some of the best reads in Malayalam. The author is director, School of English and Foreign Languages, University of Kerala)Oru Bhayangara KamukanUnni R.DC BooksRs. 95