http://www.thehindu.com/business/Industry/Maruti-Suzuki-moves-up-in-RampD-value-chain-with-Vitara-Brezza/article14003669.ece

Maruti Suzuki India is graduating to ‘vehicle design and development’ stage from just ‘vehicle customisation and manufacturing’ as the country’s top carmaker is gearing to roll-out a new compact SUV that is completely designed and validated by the Indian R&D team.Its new sub-4 metre compact SUV (sport utility vehicle) Vitara Brezza, which will be unveiled at the upcoming Auto Show, will be the first-ever passenger vehicle in Maruti’s portfolio that has been conceptualised, engineered and developed by the Indian team.“Though Alto 800 had a lot of Indian flavour in design and development, this is the first time a full global product development of Suzuki has happened in Maruti,” C. V.Raman, Executive Director-Engineering, Maruti Suzuki India told The Hindu. “Only two things – vehicle’s wind tunnel and rust endurance testing – took place at parent Suzuki’s global engineering facility. With adequate testing infrastructure at its Rohtak and Gurgaon R & D facilities, the local development team was able to meet the standards and the testing requirements for the new vehicle,” he added. Compact SUV is one segment where Maruti doesn’t have a presence now. But, it sees bright opportunity to make its presence felt in the category in view of the favourable growth outlook despite growing competition. Maruti has two offerings now in UV segment –premium cross-over S-Cross and a compact multi utility vehicle Ertiga. The new Vitara Brezza is expected to fill the gap in the fast-growing compact segment.Also, the SUV will be exported to some of the emerging markets.The larger role of Maruti team in Suzuki’s global product development comes close on the heels of its mid-team sales goal of achieving 2 million unit sales in India. To achieve this, the company will have to expand its product range and enter new segments. Thus, to reduce model development time and cost, Maruti has ramped up its R & D capability in the past few years. While it has set up a world-class R & D centre at Rohtak, the total number of R&D staff has increased to about 1,400 from few hundreds.Maruti also joins the list of other global car makers such as Nissan and Renault who have already embarked on a mission to design and develop compact cars out of India to sell both in India and emerging markets.This is because post-Tata Nano Indian vehicle development capabilities have grown to the next level.