http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Vijayawada/Marathon-expo-to-be-held-today/article13989963.ece

Marathon expo, an introductory event on the eve of the Jio Amaravati Marathon, will be held at Dandamundi Rajagopal Rao Indoor Stadium on Saturday from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m., according to Commissioner of Police Gautam Sawang on Friday. The expo will provide the registered runners their kits, route maps and other information about the run, which will be held on Sunday.Speaking to media persons, he said the expo, which is free for public, will have stalls, eateries and entertainment. “Bring your friends, family and shop at the official merchandise store and from other exciting vendors,” he added.Mr. Sawang said the M.G. Road would be blocked from traffic from 4 a.m. to 10 p.m. on Sunday. “Three segments of the marathon will be held on the day (i.e.) Half Marathon (21 km), 10 km, and 5 km. The half marathon will be flagged off by Chief National Badminton Coach Pullela Gopichand at 6 a.m., while DGP J.V. Ramudu, Koneru Humpy and pop singer Smita and Nagasourya (film star) will flag of the 10 km run. The 5-km run will be flagged by Union Minister Venkaiah Naidu and film personalise Ram and Sharwanand.”Top cop said that Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu, who will be the chief guest of the valedictory, will give away the prizes to the winners at 9 a.m. “Total prize money of Rs. 7.5 lakhs is at stake.”Competitions director Murali Nanapaneni said that the participants, after completion of the event, can download the certificates online. “Elaborate measures are taken for the safety of the runner en route. We have pressed into service as 200 medial personnel and six ambulances to meet any eventuality,” he added. He asked the registered runners to report one hour in advance and follow the kilometre markers and aid stations all the along the route course. “Free packaged water will be available every one kilometre and we are ensuring a traffic-free route,” he added.He said apart from the run, the event will have lots entertainment before and after the run. “There will be dance and other entertaining performances by renowned celebrities after the run.”The run is sponsored by Reliance Jio, Greenko and organised by DEEP (Disease Eradication through Education and Prevention).