http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Margaret-and-her-many-talents/article14026842.ece

When the queue for a 6.30 p.m. event was already half-a-mile long at 5 p.m., there’s no surprise as to who people were waiting for. It was Margaret Atwood. Behind me, a lady asked a young girl, “Have you read her novels?” and got an indignant, “Of course,” in reply.It was comforting to see the line grow longer — a testimony to the power Atwood wields, and the audience at the event, organised by Bloomsbury and The Literary Foundation, seemed restless already.I know what Atwood can do with words — how this award-winning internationally-loved Canadian author can draw you into her books and keep you there till the last page has been turned. Knowing her books, one shouldn’t be surprised that, in person, she is a reflection of her work.On this particular evening in Delhi, she was in conversation with writer and historian Patrick French, who began by giving the audience a little insight into Atwood’s time at the recently-concluded Jaipur Literature Festival. “You were an inspiration for younger authors, especially women, who see in you someone they want to be,” he said. Atwood had said that insecurity is the biggest problem for an author: “If you are insecure, write under a pseudonym.” On this note, he wondered if, at some level, Atwood had always been a secure person, or if that security came with success.“Old age, actually,” Atwood quipped, as the audience laughed, setting the tone for the evening. “When you are 20, you don’t know the plot and you are more nervous. But the worst time in a writer’s life is the middle,” she said, adding that when you have published a book, there is more pressure for the second, and you have “made enemies”. “In Jaipur, I met a 15-year-old who had written a novel. When I was 15, I was writing bad poetry.”The conversation steered towards Atwood’s childhood and the mark it has made on her work. Born in 1939, Atwood said that the Second World War lent an anxious, nervous quality to her early years. As her father was a forest entomologist, the family lived in remote areas of Northern Canada, where reading, writing and drawing were the only ways to pass time. “On days when the sun shone, my brother and I would be out turning logs to see what was under them. You’d be surprised at the amount of time you can spend doing that.” Her brother took to writing as well, but Atwood joked that he probably “got it out of his system. I was supposed to be a botanist”.Apart from her work, they also discussed Atwood’s interest in indigenous people, First Nations in Canada, and her travels through Iran and Afghanistan (with her partner and their 18-month-old daughter).The author radiated energy and vitality, peppering her answers with delightful anecdotes. She gently teased French, and, at one point, expressed concern that he hadn’t watched the new Star Wars movie yet. In fact, her banter was dotted with pop culture references, such as the difference between speculative and science fiction, Jules Verne, H.G. Wells, Star Trek, The Fly, and, in a particularly hilarious moment, a 1966 movie called Fantastic Voyage, the plot of which she narrated in detail.By the time the conversation concluded, Atwood had seriously discussed politics, feminism, and technology, answered a question about the Future Library project, and explained the idea of nomenclature in her work. But the icing on the cake was her brilliant impression of Jeff Goldblum as Brundlefly and William Shatner as Captain Kirk.