http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Masagalli-residents-want-stone-crushing-unit-in-safe-zone-shut/article13996183.ece

The residents of Masagalli village, Hosanagar taluk, have demanded that the district administration not renew the licence of a stone crushing unit operating in the safe zone near the village. The licence of the stone crushing unit would expire on January 16.The district administration, in 2012, notified 15 acres in Survey No. 16 in the village to set up a safe zone for the operation of stone crushing units. At present, only one unit operates from the safe zone.The residents have alleged that the land notified by the district administration is in close proximity to a school, community hall, a temple and an anganwadi centre. Apart from causing pollution, the noise from the stone crushing unit was disturbing the functioning of the school, they alleged.“The unit had got permission to install a crushing machine of 25 tonne per day (TPD) capacity … at present a machine with the capacity to crush 70 tonne per hour (TPH) is being operated. The unit began operations without getting the required environment clearance certificate. Owing to the movement of stone-laden tractors, the roads are damaged,” social activist Kallur Megharaj told press persons here on Tuesday.Ecologically sensitiveThe village has been notified as an ecologically sensitive area by the Kasturirangan Panel’s report on conservation of Western Ghats. Activities that are detrimental to the environment, including stone crushing units, are prohibited, Mr. Megharaj added.The residents of Masagalli, Malavalli and Mattikoppa villages had earlier submitted a memorandum to the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) asking it to shut down the unit.Though the KSPCB had passed an order (dated December 25, 2015), directing the district administration to shut down the unit, no action has been taken in this regard, he rued.The KSPCB had observed that the stone crushing unit was operating by violating certain provisions of the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981, and the Karnataka Regulation of Stone Crushers (Amendment) Act, 2013.Speaking on the occasion, Gangamma, former Masagalli Gram Panchayat member, urged the Deputy Commissioner to conduct a spot inspection with senior officers of the Revenue, Forest, Mines and Geology departments to assess the problems caused by the stone crushing unit to the public.“Speaker of Legislative Assembly and Sagar MLA Kagodu Thimmappa had assured during the 2013 Assembly campaign, that he would take steps to shut down the unit, if elected,” she added and urged Mr. Thimmappa to fulfil the promise.President of Masagalli Gram Panchayat, Gulabi, residents - M. Ganesh, Somashekhar, Asha Harish and Kodlu Sridhar - were present in the press conference. The residents also submitted a memorandum to the office of Deputy Commissioner.