http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/Masterclass-on-the-master/article13999540.ece

“It’s very important that our theatre lovers and students get a deeper understanding of the stalwarts who have contributed to the theatre movement. There is not much information available on such big names in the theatre. We do not have enough theatre magazines or films that inform us of this vibrant heritage. Therefore an exhibition designed for wider public is one of the answers for us,” says Amal Allana, the curator of the Alkazi’s Theatre Exhibition – A Modernist Approach to Indian Theatre which opens on January 15 at Lalit Kala galleries. Undoubtedly, this is the biggest exhibition on the theatrical art organized in recent memory in the Capital. It is also remarkable the way talented and eminent creative persons have collaborated to capture the works of Ebrahim Alkazi, a genius who achieved eminence as an innovator of contemporary Indian theatre, a great teacher and a designer par excellence who strived for the synthesis of all arts. The spectators will watch the glorious journey of Alkazi into the world of the arts-the theatre, performing and plastic arts.An eminent theatre director, author and former chairperson of National School of Drama, Amal has always considered theatre exhibitions, films and archives essential for the growth of theatre movement and for the students. As the chairperson of NSD she endeavoured to introduce these activities in the institution. During Bharat Rang Mahotsav, she curated five exhibitions on the theatre of Rabindranath Tagore, Habib Tanvir and Badal Sircar. Talking about her experience of curating exhibitions for NSD and the one on Alkazi which is being organised by Art Heritage and Alkazi Foundation, she says, “In NSD there is no separate forum and fund for exhibitions but as soon as I came to NSD as a chairperson, I realized the importance of organizing exhibitions. I immediately did some research work on the history of NSD so that the common people, theatre practitioners and interested visitors get the kind of idea about the history of this important national institution. Documentation of this ephemeral art is absolutely necessary; otherwise there will be no history available to future generations.“Though curating for NSD with various kinds of constraints, it was a satisfying and valuable work. As for curating the exhibition on Alkazi is concerned there are no such constraints. It is a labour of love, collecting material for years. Nissar has been conceptualizing this exhibition for long. We have already filmed the productions of ‘Julius Caesar’ and ‘Din Ke Andhere’ which shows Alkazi in action-interacting, talking with actors, visiting green room, and listening actors-the film runs for 20 minutes. Here we have creative freedom and time and funds to design and conceive our project.”Amal says adequate space is given to Alkazi’s formative years in Mumbai. Here he came in contact with the youth of university who were full of energy and ideas. And then he went to London and returned to Mumbai after two and a half years, started doing theatre with passion. Reminiscing, Amal says, “In Mumbai we lived in a one room flat which was also our rehearsal space. Later, the landlord agreed to use the terrace on the fourth floor as auditorium which had 80 seats. Alkazi named it Meghdoot. The Mumbai phase in his life was very significant. There he did seminal work, unforgettable.”Daughter of Alkazi, she is an NSD graduate. How much the exhibition projects biographical element? She says, “Biographical element is limited here. We are trying to concentrate on the evolution of Alkazi's ideas on theatre. It is covering a span of 50 years from early 1940s to the mid-nineties when he did his last play with the Living Theatre. Alkazi has lived many lives in one life. After leaving NSD, he has spent 35 more years in the art world, in his art gallery, which he established in 1977. Now in our catalogue we are providing a detailed chronology of Alkazi's theatre works. Our major thrust is to see him as an institution and to communicate the idea of modern theatre to wider public.”Noted stage designer Nissar has designed the exhibition working day and night with his technical team. At Lalit Kala galleries hectic activities are taking place. One can see a large number of frames of aluminium, some are huge and some small. On the tables on the first floor there are art papers on which Nissar has drawn a variety sketches. He says, “To display the works of an artist for the viewer in an elegantly designed exhibition is easy. What is most vital is to communicate to the viewer and for him or her to feel the passion of an inspired creation of a genius. This is most challenging. Here I am attempting to make the spectators feel the intense passion and inspiration that characterized the works of Alkazi who is a perfectionist and a thinker,” adding, “So I decided to design the exhibition with several sections, the first section titled ‘Alkazi’s Times’ is captured in a 44-feet long newspaper which chronicles what was happening in the art world in India during independence. We see Alkazi’s work in the context of what is happening in the political and social spheres of the country. Then the highest point of his artistic discovery, the universality between all arts. So he could not do theatre without understanding music, dance, and painting. There are various sections like Alkazi's 16-year tenure as the director of National School of Drama, most glorious, most creative and most rewarding phase that changed the concept of training in the theatre and the direction of modernist approach to Indian theatre. There are sections like Alkazi's actors, Alkazi's directors. The exhibition also communicates his fascination for regional culture of India, Asian mode of cultural expressions leading to his discovery of the Brechtian theatre as the synthesis of Asian and Western theatre. We have here great productions of Alkazi.”So much talent, creative effort, detailed planning and financial resources have gone into the making of an exhibition on our tallest theatre pathfinder. “It will be an inspiration to young people and performers to see how one man is able with very limited means to spearhead an entire movement and generate a sizeable audience for appreciating good theatre,” says Amal.This is Alkazi's 90th year which the organisers are celebrating with this event planning to take the exhibition to Mumbai and Bengaluru.(The exhibition will remain open till Feb. 3).