http://www.thehindu.com/sport/cricket/Maxwell%E2%80%99s-heroics-deliver-Australia-the-series/article14003676.ece

India lost the VB Series at the Melbourne Cricket Ground here on Sunday, but not without a fight.It required an innings of great character and brio from Glenn Maxwell — a man not reputed for responsible batting — to help Australia chase down a target of 296 in the third One-Day International.Maxwell made 96 (83b, 8x4, 3x6), and would have walked back gloriously unbeaten if not for an attempt to smash the ball over the infield with one run to win.The Victoria batsman, playing on his home ground, added 80 crucial runs for the seventh wicket with James Faulkner. That stand destroyed India's chances, the tide well and truly turning when Maxwell hammered 15 runs off Umesh Yadav's 43rd over. It left Australia 44 to get off the last seven overs, a task accomplished with seven balls to spare.The three-wicket victory took the gloss off Virat Kohli's 24th one-day hundred. Australia leads the five-match series 3-0, with the fourth ODI to be played in Canberra on Wednesday.Under lights, the run chase seemed to be adhering to a familiar script when the home side was coasting along at 112 for one in the 19th over. But Ravindra Jadeja removed the two big fish — Steve Smith and George Bailey — in the space of half an hour and the contest suddenly acquired a different colour. Smith edged the left-arm spinner behind and was held at first slip for 41 while Bailey, who had looked extremely comfortable, was smartly stumped for 23.Australia never truly stagnated, ensuring the required run rate did not spiral out of reach even as the wickets tumbled. There was no let up in the pressure on the fielders, with India guilty of a number of sloppy errors on the ground.Dhoni may have wished to chase after the way the first two games turned out, but that decision was taken out of his hands here. On a hot afternoon, Australia invited India to bat. India made two changes, dropping Manish Pandey and R. Ashwin to hand Gurkeerat Singh and Rishi Dhawan their first caps.Rohit Sharma, after scores of 171 and 124 in the previous matches, was caught behind for six (his average for the series still a healthy 150.5). Shikhar Dhawan, who must surely have felt the weight of his previous failures, steadily struck the ball with increasing conviction after a few early edges.He pulled with ease, on a pitch that was perhaps slower than the ones used in Perth and Brisbane, scoring a number of boundaries through the mid-wicket region. His innings of 68 was put in the shade, though, by Kohli's blistering hundred.The right-hander ran extremely well, finding the gaps and working the angles on this enormous outfield. Only 40 of Kohli's 117 runs came in boundaries; there were 55 singles, eight twos and two threes.In between, though, there were shots of staggering brilliance and force. Two of them particularly stood out: the batsman advancing down the pitch and lashing Scott Boland over long-on, and later sending Kane Richardson to the leg-side boundary with a brute of a bottom-handed whip.During the course of his knock, Kohli became the quickest player to complete 7,000 ODI runs, reaching the landmark in 161 innings, ahead of A.B. de Villiers (166).Ajinkya Rahane, unsung and in some quarters unnoticed, meanwhile, marched to his sixth half-century in nine one-day innings.He and Kohli added 109 runs (105b) for the third wicket, following on the back of a second-wicket stand of 119. Both Kohli and Rahane fell to John Hastings, who eventually finished with four for 58 from his 10 overs.India was aggressively seeking to push towards a big total here. Although Kohli’s exit hurt that endeavour, it did not kill it. Dhoni clubbed a nine-ball 23, in an effort that called to mind his best days, as India made 99 runs in the last 10 overs. The visitors finished five short of 300, a total that would again prove inadequate.