http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/Mayawati-slams-Sumitra-Mahajans-call-for-review-of-reservations/article14019577.ece

Hitting out at Lok Sabha Speaker Sumitra Mahajan for advocating a re-think of reservations, Bahujan Samaj Party supremo Mayawati on Monday said the remarks reflected a “parochial anti-Dalit” and “Manuvadi” mentality.While addressing officials of local bodies at an event on smart cities in Ahmedabad on Saturday, Ms. Mahajan had wondered why a “re-think” on reservations had not happened even after so many years of independence.Ms. Mahajan also quoted B.R. Ambedkar to justify her point. Though she later clarified that her remark was not a verdict for or against reservations, coming months after RSS chief >Mohan Bhagwat expressed similar views, it triggered sharp response.Ms. Mayawati said the Speaker’s remarks added fuel to the controversy over >the death due to “casteist oppression” of Dalit scholar Rohith Vemula. The former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister said the true meaning of a “review” of reservations by the RSS was to bring an end to it.In this country and society where caste identities are forged at birth and surface in every sphere and at every level, removing reservations would be equal to promoting “injustice, oppression and exploitation,” Ms. Mayawati said. If the discrimination, exploitation and inequality have been going on the basis of Caste, the solution for it also must be based on caste, Ms. Mayawati argued.Dr. Ambedkar would say that stray cases of inter-caste dining and marriage would not bring an end to the caste system, Ms. Mayawati said, equating the caste system with “mental illness.”With the Assembly session starting later this week, the BSP is expected raise issues related to atrocity against Dalit students in the State.The party had also sent a delegation led by Veer Singh Advocate, BSP Rajya Sabha member, to UoH to meet the family of the deceased scholar. However, the fact-finding report has not been made public.“If even after his death, Vemula does not get justice, then it would be understood that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s emotional remarks on the Dalit scholar were mere ‘theatrics’ and his tears “crocodile tears,” Ms. Mayawati said.