http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/MBA-student-detained-illegally/article14000098.ece

The Shivajinagar police are in the dock after officials of the Karnataka State Human Rights Commission (KSHRC) visited the police station on Thursday afternoon and found that an MBA student had been detained illegally.Balamurugan, in his complaint, alleged that his son, Senthil, had been picked up on Wednesday morning around 4 a.m. from their home in Narayan Pillai Street in Bharathinagar.The police had come looking for Senthil’s elder brother, Karthik, who is a suspect in a theft case. “Since he was not at home, they took Senthil and told my father to bring me to the station only after which they would release Senthil. I was in Vellore at the time. On my return, we went to a lawyer on Thursday morning and then approached the KSHRC,” Karthik said.Recounting the tale, Karthik said trouble began for the family two months ago when a constable began harassing them for Rs. 1 lakh and told them to return solar panels that he alleged they had got from a thief. “We did not receive any panels. But, he refused to believe us and told us to either pay him Rs. 1 lakh or return the panels. We approached the Lokayukta, who trapped him while receiving the bribe,” Karthik said.This case was held as a grudge against the family, and the police picked up Senthil on Wednesday in connection with another case, Karthik claimed.KSHRC steps inOn Thursday, the KSHRC officials, led by the commission’s Registrar, S.Y. Irannavar, went to the police station and noted that the logs maintained by the Station House Officer did not show that Senthil had been brought in for inquiry. “We warned the police officer and have asked him to either produce Senthil before a magistrate and legalise his detention, or release him,” a senior officer of the KSHRC said.A notice will also be sent to the SHO for illegal detention and alleged torture, he added.According to senior police officials, however, Senthil was picked up in connection with vehicle battery theft cases that were reported in Shivajinagar. “We have mobile tower location of the detained person to show that we picked him up only on Thursday morning at 10 a.m.,” they said. When contacted, DCP Sathish Kumar said the police would reply to the notice.