http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/Medical-officer-others-under-scanner-for-taking-part-in-protests/article14012849.ece

Captain Ravindra Kumar, who resigned from the post of Chief Medical Officer (CMO) of the University of Hyderabad (UoH) on Wednesday, claimed that his name along with 50 other officers who had joined the protests along with students of the varsity, were sent to the Government of India.Dr. Kumar, who has been working at UoH for the last 26 years, said he had received ‘hints’ that his name along with others were under the scanner of the Centre. “If a Kamma can be a part of the Kamma Sangam, why can’t a Dalit be a part of a Dalit Sangam?” he questioned, adding that it is an individual’s right to be a part of his community’s group.‘Why did the administration send the junior-most doctor?’Questioning the UoH administration’s actions after the scuffle between the Ambedkar Students’ Association (ASA) members and ABVP leader Susheel, Dr. Kumar said being the senior-most doctor, he should have been informed about the incident first.“It is what the protocol demands. But they sent the junior-most doctor, Anupama, and asked her to check the medical report given by a private hospital where Susheel went,” he said.‘Why did Susheel go to private hospital?’“They probably did not send me because I am a Dalit. In fact, had I been notified, I would have gone there along with another doctor to check Susheel. Things would have been different then,” said Dr. Kumar. He also pointed out that the UoH’s Health Centre has an ECG machine, a pathology laboratory, medicines, and other facilities, but Susheel had chosen to go to a private hospital instead.No mention of injury in first reportDr. Kumar, who was an Army doctor for seven years before joining the varsity, stated that he was unhappy over how everything had unfolded after the scuffle, and that he was not even kept in the loop about what was happening. “Dr. Anupama did not mention anything about an injury in her first report, but mentioned it in her second report, after which five Dalit boys were suspended,” he said.He informed that the Health Centre has five full-time doctors, and that 24-hours of service is available for students. “We also have a psychiatrist here. Rohith’s letter to Prof. Appa Rao about giving him a rope to kill himself should have been a signal. He could have sent the boy to us for help,” he said. Dr. Kumar along with 13 other faculty members of UoH had resigned from their administrative posts on Wednesday.