http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Meet-the-moon-here-over-food-and-drinks-Casbah/article14024641.ece

When the ambience complements the food, the entire dining experience gets better. And if the ambience is tastefully themed to go with the menu, one can only expect a magical evening to take over. Why evening? Well Casbah is a place where one would want to go in the evening with its fully-open seating arrangement. As the name suggests, Casbah is about a Mediterranean experience. So, everything from the colour, lights, to one part of the seating almost takes you to the themed tents in the dessert safaris. Minus the sand, of course.Casbah is the newest baby from the house of Westin. Situated in one of the open banquet floors of Westin, this lounge is about having a relaxed time. This theme lounge is all about subtlety, mild flavours, soothing fragrances and lilting music.Signature mocktails, cocktails further help one sink into the relaxed ambience while the soft piped music allows conversations to go on. A good place for a date but is also a good place to hangout with your crazy loud bunch. The code of conduct is: there is no code.With such an ambience, if the food fails, it will be an epic fail. So, chef Rakesh has charted out sections with appropriate flavours and foods to go with the look. After all ‘nothing like a happy tummy.’ For appetisers the pita and hummus platter with many bite-sized pitas might fill up a small eater. So, pick the ones you find look most unusual. The dips are good individually. But if you are not a hummus lover, you might want to skip to other starters that look more interesting. The veg options might not match up to the non-veg section but the options are good enough for vegetarians not to crib. They include cottage cheese laced with a fruity flavour and a couple of skewered fruits that add more flavours to the Mediterranean affair. Non-vegetarians must try the skewered prawns. Juicy! Buttery! Simply delectable. The meat selection has the everyday chicken and lamb and chef strongly recommends the lamb starters to those who love biting onto juicy lamb chunks. The main course has breads, curries and flavoured rice options. The rice is richly flavoured enough to be good to go without any accompaniment. But one will not harm either.Desserts are all Mediterranean so get ready to dig in a lot of baklava and kunafa.Where: Casbah, Westin, Raheja MindspaceWhen: 7 p.m. onwardsWhat: Mediterranean, drinks as wellTable for two: Rs. 1500 approx (without taxes)