http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/events/Meeting-of-melody/article14010111.ece

Playback singer and Hindustani musician Gayathri Asokan and Carnatic singer Sreeranjini Kodampally will be tuning in today in a jugalbandhi that bridges the two classical music streams of India – Hindustani and Carnatic. “Although we have performed together for a temple festival, this is the first time we are giving a recital for a prestigious festival like Nishangandhi. We have been practising constantly for the big event. Ustad Zakir Hussain will be performing on the same stage after a few days. So, yes, we are a little nervous,” says Gayathri, a seasoned stage artiste and award-winning singer.The two singers were encouraged to come up with a programme like this by mridangam player Narayanan.“He felt that we shared the same sensibilities and attitude and so he said that we could strike a chord. Sreeranjini is a busy singer in Bengaluru,” adds Gayathri.Admitting that a jugalbandhi between Hindustani classical and Carnatic music is not an easy task, she says both of them had to make compromises to make their recital a harmonious experience. There have been occasions when even great singers from both the schools have faltered while trying to negotiate the twists and turns in a jugalbandhi.The young singers also had to change their pitch to suit the music they are going to perform.Today, Gayathri and Sreeranjini will be rendering two ragas – Abheri and Panthuvarali and its counterpart in Hindustani music, Bhimplas and Pooriya Dhanasree. The singers will also render a few solo numbers before concluding the concert.The two are enthused that they have someone like Patri Satheeshkumar who will be accompanying them on the mridangan.“A few weeks ago, he had performed in a jugalbandhi with Ustad Zakir Hussain. So it is a huge honour for us. This is a new platform for us and if it becomes successful, we plan to do a jugalbandhi on other stages as well,” says Gayathri.Their jugalbandhi is at 6.30 p.m. at Nishagandi auditorium, Kanakakunnu.