http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Meet-the-hit-girl/article14001649.ece

From smack downs to sparring over bragging rights, this past week Delhi saw all the tamasha that we associate with the World Wrestling Entertainment. Some call it brutal, some find it fun, but one thing is certain we get to see plenty of characters in the ring. It may not be scripted like a Hollywood blockbuster but each fighter at WWE has at his/her back of mind that added responsibility of entertaining the teeming fans who come just to catch a glimpse. Scores of kids hero-worship big names like Rock and Roman Reigns. They carry their posters to be signed and preserved for posterity. “It all boils down to excellent communication skills and being true to one’s character to generate edge-of-the-seat entertainment,” reflected Charlotte, WWE Divas Champion. The female face of the Delhi leg was left awestruck with the male fan following she had in the Capital with request for selfies, autographs and a hug for all the hard work she does inside the ring. “It is overwhelming to see this kind of fan following here. We have to live up to their expectations. Inside the ring we have a job to do. The physical part is the easiest. It is the role of the entertainer that is the hardest. It is all about connecting with the fans. My father has had a number of professional fights but you have to see his promos to understand what goes into these challenges. Entertainment part is the most important part. You may be best wrestler of all times but you have to make the audience laugh,” said the aggressive wrestler.Daughter of Ric Flair, a wrestling legend, Charlotte has an emotional connect with India. “My dad has fond memories of the time when he came here 13 years ago. He is excited that I have come here to carry on his legacy. He travelled all over the world. Both my brother and I are wrestlers but I trained on my own. My dad travelled all over the world while I was growing up.”Explaining her mental approach before a big fight, she said, “Before entering the ring I go to a place to think how I would be making my character act in a certain way. Very much like the movies. There are times when I am disappointed but I don’t want the audience to see that.”On the challenges that her Indian counterparts – Satender (kushti) and Lovepreet Sangha (kabbadi), who have come from traditional wrestling and kabbadi background respectively, would face at WWE, Charlotte said, “WWE has a specific way of doing things. No matter how much experience you have, one has to follow the system. These wrestlers will have a character and it will reflect in the promos. It does not depend from where you come. Everyone has to deal with the WWE’s producers and their talent enhancing team. It is awesome if you have that (wrestling) as background. It adds to your list of accomplishments. But they must understand that entertainment is the most critical part.”In this male-dominated sport Charlotte has to fight her way, even if gets uglier, to retain her position. “The audience want to see women wrestling but it is not going to happen overnight. A lot of branding goes into it. As long as you are respectful to them (men) by following rituals like shaking hands they are okay,” Charlotte trailed off.For all the show of strength on the ground, many feel the popularity of WWE is waning in India. “I hope there is more demand for sports entertainment in India especially with Lovepreet and Satender joining us. I am not knowledgeable about Indian wrestling. Whatever I know is from what our Indian wrestlers have told me. Have I said the name Satender correctly? (smiles) I have a Southern accent,. “ Charlotte signed off the North Carolina woman with a big smile.Grappling with EnglishGetting the right facial expression during the fight means a lot to Satender Pal, a two-time national heavyweight wrestling champion now part of the large WWE family. “Acting classes have to be attended with all seriousness. When I say acting it does not mean faking the pain and joy but showing presence of mind, addressing the audience. Even if you fall from a table, you would get hurt. No amount of acting can hide your pain,” says Satender.The ability to communicate with a live audience is the hardest for the Indian wrestler. “Born in a Jat family of Haryana, I grew up in Baghru village in Sonepat, which had no facilities. Forget about learning English. But the exposure in the U.S. has improved my communication skills.”