http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/news/Meghalaya-to-Mumbai-on-marathon-trail/article14004071.ece

Over the years, the Mumbai Marathon has drawn various communities to the city. But the event’s international fame also makes it an ideal platform to showcase talent from other Indian States.This year, a group of 18 runners arrived from Meghalaya to run the marathon under the banner of RUNMeghalaya, an organisation started in 2013 to promote long-distance running in the State.RUNMeghalaya began as a community initiative to bring together people with a talent for long-distance running, instruct them on all aspects of the sport and provide funding to take part in events like the Mumbai Marathon.“Most of the 18 participants are mostly from humble backgrounds,” says Gerald Pde, an architect and vice-president of the organisation.“This is the fifth event we are participating in after the Airtel Delhi half marathon and marathons in Bangalore, Kolkata and Guwahati. Our participants consistently win prize money which supplements their income.”As many of them are engaged in professions such as farming, they train for just two days a week. But they are guided by experienced members in the group. One among them is Badon Sing Tham, 43, of the Meghalaya police force and a long-distance runner for the past 15 years. “We often train in tough terrain which helps us for these races,” he says. Mr Tham emerged third in the BSF Marathon held in Shillong on November 8 last year. He has also participated in races in Haryana and Lucknow.A role modelHis is an example for participants such as Dr Kalyani Namshum, 42, who is a new entrant to the group. “I have run four half marathons before, but this is the first time I am running a full marathon,” he says. However, several of their group members couldn’t make it from Meghalaya because they couldn’t afford the cost of travel. “We try and put up our own funding and the other major source of is crowd funding,” Mr Pde says. “We have also sought help from MLAs and they have been helpful.”Among the major success stories from the group is Stilin Jyrwa, who recently finished third in the 18 to 25 category at the Bengaluru Marathon held in October last year.There’s also Darishasha Langjuh, who won the race in her age category. Both of them hail from the West Khasi hills in Meghalaya. Mr Pde says RUNMeghalaya has been instrumental in organising marathons in Meghalaya such as the Sohra Cherrapunjee Marathon for the past two years.The organisation is looking to make this an annual event that will attract runners from across the globe.Several team members stayed back as theycould not afford travel costs