http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/Mega-plans-for-capital-city/article13985600.ece

The TRS Government has formulated over Rs. 50,000 crore worth of projects to be executed in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) area in the coming years.These included the Rs. 25,000 crore Strategic Road Development Plan, involving construction of flyovers at various places, and construction of two reservoirs exclusively for drinking water purposes to the south and north of Hyderabad at a cost of Rs. 7,600 crore.These apart, the State Government is exploring extension of the Hyderabad Metro Rail network by another 83 km between Miyapur and Patancheru, Gachibowli and Shamshabad and Nagole and Shamshabad. Overall, the government envisages a 200 km network of metro rail and its goal is to have check-in facilities within the city for air-borne passengers. Currently, the State Government is holding discussions with GMR Hyderabad International Airport officials in this regard.Panchayat Raj and Information Technology Minister K.T. Ram Rao is confident that the Metro Rail project would be completed as per schedule by 2017 as its execution is back on track.He feels that funding these ambitious projects will not be a problem as the State government is ready to provide sovereign guarantee for raising the required money.In the case of the two proposed reservoirs in the city, Rao said that IL& FS had already agreed to build them. Following this, he said, by next July, Hyderabad would be self sufficient as far as its drinking water requirements were concerned provided there was no failure of monsoons.The other projects envisaged by the government are establishment of a ring of 400 KV substations around the city to ensure uninterrupted and quality power supply, construction of 100 bicycle stations and raising the green cover in the city from the existing 23 per cent to 33 per cent of the area by planting another 100 million saplings in a couple of years. All suitable vacant municipal lands in the city would be converted into parks, he said. The State Government had also identified 36 locations for establishment of model vegetable and meat markets. Besides, it envisages establishment of more community centres, distribution of LED bulbs at subsidised rates to bring down the energy consumption by 30 per cent, deploy 2,000 new vehicles for garbage clearance and modernise the sewage system.Mr. Rao explained that the State Government, which sought exclusion of Hyderabad from the Centre's Smart Cities project, had written to the Union Government seeking allocation of at least Rs 1,000 crore a year for the development of the city.