http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/Mehbooba-to-hold-first-party-meet-today/article14003148.ece

Jammu and Kashmir will see the first formal move by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) towards government formation on Sunday, with party president Mehbooba Mufti calling a meeting of senior party leaders and legislators “for their inputs.”Ms. Mufti, whose father and former J&K Chief Minister Mufti Muhammad Sayeed (79) passed away on January 7, stay put at her residence all these days with the bereaved family members. Though Ms. Mufti avoided holding party meetings since her father’s demise, her colleagues took a strong stance towards its coalition partner, the BJP, by seeking promises on implementation of ‘Agenda for Alliance’, the common minimum programme agreed upon by the alliance in March last year.“Ms. Mufti will preside over a first formal meeting at 2 p.m. tomorrow (Sunday). All senior party leaders and legislators are invited to the meeting to discuss the political situation after Mufti sahib’s demise,” PDP legislator Nayeem Akhtar told The Hindu . Sources said Ms. Mufti had invited all former Cabinet Ministers and MPs. Besides, the old guard and influential party leaders, who were close to the late Mufti, including Sartaj Madni, Dilawar Mir, Raja Ajaz Ali, Rafi Mir and Sajad Mufti, have been invited.Sources said the party had sought inputs on the nine months of the PDP-BJP rule in the State. The BJP had sent feelers to the PDP regarding ironing out differences on the “approach towards the Agenda for Alliance,” according to the sources.Ms. Mufti is expecting the BJP brass to approach her and give assurances on the common minimum programme.Both coalition partners realise there are few options available in Jammu and Kashmir right now but to sail through jointly and focus on the governance front.Meanwhile, sources in the BJP said there was unanimity over Ms. Mufti taking over as the next Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir, which is under Governor’s rule since January 8.NC the only option: FarooqSpeaking on the political uncertainty in the State, former Chief Minister and National Conference President Farooq Abdullah on Saturday said: “J&K is passing through a difficult phase. A strong NC is the answer to all the problems being confronted by the State.” “Peoples’ aspirations hold paramount importance in democratic polity and the moment ruling elite suffers from mistaken belief of being ‘kings’ they get distanced from the masses. A major stride was taken in 1996 to steer J&K on the path of democracy,” he added.Mr. Abdullah said his party had not closed doors on the BJP. “If need arises we can discuss it in the party. We have not closed the doors.”