http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Memorabilia-in-gold/article14014043.ece

A glass cabinet with curios collected lovingly over a period of time, the showcase, holds memories of a lifetime. It is an emotional, visual story of the life and times of a dwelling, the ups and downs, the vicissitudes, so to speak, of the people who live there. Artists have used this equipment to telling effect. Dayanita Singh’s glass cabinets with photographs, Orhan Pamuk’s Museum of Innocence (museum) are veritable tributes to the mini showcases that each family treasures. Artist Manoj Vyloor uses the showcase as a format for his latest work ‘Home Wreck’ in a solo exhibition titled ‘Losing Home’ on at Durbar Hall Art Gallery.The showcase becomes a tool in his hands to cover a timeline that spans from the times of a comfortable happy childhood to the travails when life is brutally torn asunder by destruction, discrimination and death.Hence the images – found, collected, modified, handmade- for this powerful linear narrative range from warm, joyous objects like books, flower vase, necklace, guitar moving to objects of everyday use - tablet strips, clocks, fruit baskets, bottles and such- found commonly in any home. Mid-way the expression takes on harsher imagery as day-to-day living gets tougher. Photographs of seminal events in history – Auschwitz, Gaza, World Trade Centre, Guantanamo Bay – images impress the viewer with a sense of desolation and immediacy of a world coming apart. The narration reaches climax with these hard hitting, gruelling images of what has transpired in the lives of ordinary human beings. An epilogue, titled Somnoliloquy, portmanteau for somnambulism and soliloquy - has the artist tactfully placing a series of drawings that ostensibly came about spontaneously, “like talking in sleep.” These random sketches reveal a feverish inherent gush for illogical, irreverent and surrealistic expression. These final images come as a fitting closure to a pain filled tale where the characters have suffered.One of the first articles that Manoj began collecting for the installation was footwear; heaps of disjointed ones gathered and bunched as after a stampede. An old TV set from a repair shop is a gentle image of pre-liberalisation days. The only item that works in the collectibles is the skull clock, its needles uncannily portending the passage of time and the final end.Some of the black and white photographs of the Nazi concentration camps are inspired by the famous documentary Night and Fog by Alain Resnais. “These are to remind people that this can happen again,” says the artist who has put up this solo show after a gap of 13 years.The strength in the narration comes from the effective use of monotone, of gold, imparting a cast in metal look. All the objects are painted in gold and placed laterally taking the viewer through the gamut of stirring events. Manoj Vyloor is currently the Head of Department of painting at the Govt. College of Fine Arts, Thrissur.