http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/Readers-Editor/Memory-nostalgia-and-editorial-judgment/article13980728.ece

Year-end reflections often lead to insights for the new year. In my last column, I had looked at the idea of nostalgia in defining and evaluating contemporary journalism and drawn an example from Carnatic musician Sanjay Subrahmanyan’s talk to explain the changes in the book review section of this newspaper. While the gains of analogous learning are well-documented, there are limitations when it comes to extrapolating tools from one discipline to another.Some readers wanted to know the yardsticks I use to differentiate between nostalgia and memory while addressing their queries and complaints. Their contentions were: what is wrong in remembering something that was meaningful and invoking it to point out the differences between the past and the present? Why should such a qualitative observation be reduced to nostalgia? If a sense of the past is mere nostalgia, isn’t romanticising the present an ingenious way of evading critical questions? A regular contributor to the books page, Govindan Nair, felt that given the changing times, readers dearly wish that The Hindu would choose to be different, not simply because of nostalgia but to uphold the newspaper’s long-cherished principles.These responses brought out the limitations of what a writer assumes when he writes within a given word limit. He refrains from spelling out the caveats and exceptions. He assumes that the narrative grid would mean what he wants it to mean. He fervently hopes that his text does not render itself to unintended interpretations and inadvertent elucidations and expects the reader to find the same meaning that he had intended. But invariably there are conceptual gaps between what has been written and what is read. While the writer is partly responsible for these disparities, it may also be true that readers do see issues from a new angle, an angle the writer did not dream of.I certainly did not imagine that I was confusing nostalgia with memory. While I regard memory as an enabling human trait, I am convinced that nostalgia not only colours our perception of the past but also hurts our present with its uncritical portrayal of the past. I did not imagine that my column would become an illustrative example of what Umberto Eco said in his Tanner lectures titled “Interpretation and Overinterpretation: World, History, Texts” at Cambridge in 1990: “Some contemporary theories of criticism assert that the only reliable reading of a text is a misreading, that the only existence of a text is given by the chain of responses it elicits, and that, as maliciously suggested by Tzvetan Todorov (quoting Georg Cristoph Lichtenberg apropos of Jakob Boehme), a text is only a picnic where the author brings the words and the reader brings the sense.” What I wish, and request, is that readers adhere to Mr. Eco’s eminently useful suggestion: “Between the mysterious history of a textual production and the uncontrollable drift of its future readings, the text qua text still represents a comfortable presence, the point to which we can stick.”As an interlocutor between the newspaper and its millions of readers, my role is to ensure a two-way communication. I take up complaints from readers to the Editor and her team. I flag the missed story-opportunities, make corrections, and offer clarifications when required. Readers are generally discerning in their evaluation of the newspaper. I consider the trust factor as the crucial bond between the newspaper and its readers. Then there are moments where the rules of journalism need to be explained, the truant played by the text needs to be placed in a particular context, and some crucial editorial decisions need to be shared. As I have mentioned in some of the earlier columns, the editorial judgment is not made in a vacuum but within a given information ecology. Unlike market indices that are self-explanatory, editorial judgment is more nuanced and layered and on occasions it warrants a detailed elucidation. A credible and trustworthy newspaper is the site for democratic mediations in which two different trajectories — the news that represents public interest and the content that represents what the public is interested in — operate simultaneously. The editorial judgment is the balancing act that keeps these two trajectories on an even keel and does not permit one to subsume the importance of the other.Culture journalism is the best example of this. For instance, cinema is both art and entertainment. As art, it falls in the category of public interest, and as entertainment, it falls in the category of what the public is interested in. The space for art and culture is not exclusively about classical formats that showcase heritage or about the myriad forms of folk versions that make the sub-continent one of the richest treasure troves of articulation. In a newspaper, the entire oeuvre of news that deals with cinema and other leisure activities represents popular culture and is given its due share.It is in this context that I make the distinction between memory and nostalgia by drawing lessons from a conversation between an uncle and a nephew in the powerful novel by A. Sivanandan, When Memory Dies. The uncle says: “When memory dies a people die”. The nephew asks: “But if we make false memories?” The uncle responds: “That’s worse, that is murder.”readerseditor@thehindu.co.in