http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Kochi/Metro-corridor-turns-accident-prone/article14019347.ece

Motorists and pedestrians along Kochi metro corridor are having a harrowing time due to the absence of signboards and dust emanating from work sites.In the absence of boards indicating U-turns, pedestrian crossing areas and direction boards, motorists have to crawl at a snail’s pace to identify gaps beneath the metro viaduct for crossing to the other side, since the metro’s civil contractors have put up temporary ‘fencing’ using rods, pipes, tapes and ropes after barricades were scaled down in most work sites. “The two contractors have not installed mandatory boards, despite this being a contractual obligation and funds allotted for the purpose,” said officials of Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) and Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL). The traffic police too are concerned at the state of affairs. “The entire corridor is highly accident-prone since motorists take random U-turns, while speeding motorists from the opposite side are caught unawares,” said K.S. Baby Vinod, Assistant Commissioner of the City Traffic Police. “After conducting a study, we have zeroed in on a few dozen spots for taking U-turns and pedestrian crossings. Boards will be installed in two months’ time,” Mr. Vinod added.“The situation cannot go on like this for another two months and contractors must urgently install temporary boards,” said metro officials.Expressing dismay at contractors, deployed by the DMRC and safety consultants of the KMRL, not taking pro-active measures to ensure safety of road users, road safety expert C. J. Johnson said that he repeatedly took up with DMRC and KMRL safety teams the absence of mandatory markings, boards and issues like abrupt beginning and ending of barricades.“Reflectors and lights too are missing at many points and motorists unaware of barricaded work sites stand the risk of ramming them at night. The contractors are apparently not putting to use road-safety funds allotted to them. Signal posts and surveillance cameras removed from junctions too have not been re-installed.”Mr. Johnson also expressed concern over health hazards posed to road users and shop keepers by dust emanating from metro work sites. “This is because contractors often take weeks to remove slush and other materials from the work sites. Pedestrians and those waiting at bus stops have to constantly cover their nose,” he said.