http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/Metro-crosses-several-hurdles/article13976367.ece

The construction of Hyderabad Metro Rail, the world’s biggest public, private partnership (PPP) project, was not far away from the citizens minds and eyes with the viaduct coming into the heart of the city crossing flyovers and at least one railway line, causing wonder and traffic jams.Metro rail authorities in the year gone by have tackled certain seemingly insurmountable issues in terms of alignment, properties acquisition and also getting the most vital nod of the powers that be. Though there was disappointment about the postponement of the first section between Mettuguda and Nagole, citizens can look forward to commissioning of this eight kilometre stretch along with second section from Miyapur to S.R. Nagar (12 km). But, surely the most significant development is to allow the elevated metro rail line to go by the original alignment in front of the Legislative Assembly rather than take it behind the edifice and secondly, convincing most traders agitating for an alignment change at Sultan Bazar to allow the viaduct by the initial thought of route. “We were not against development. We only sought to protect our interests. We are happy with the compensatory package and reducing the road width,” points out Govind Rathi, who was leading the agitation, till truce was called. HMR managing director N.V.S. Reddy insists that taking over of long pending buildings on the Begumpet road like front space of Aladdin building, Jabbar building (pending for three decades), Ram Reddy property at Jubilee Hills Check Post, space of the Iskcon Temple, Country Club, SPG Church (Secunderabad), Sarathi Studious and so on, were crucial in pushing the construction ahead.L&T Metro Rail Hyderabad on its part is concentrating on the seven remaining railway crossovers this year including those joining Secunderabad railway. “Issues are getting resolved and work is progressing,” said MD & CE V.B. Gadgil.But, alignment in old city continues to be hazy as of now with the line clear till MGBS (Imlibun) for Corridor Two – JBS to Falaknuma. While the Government had sought feasibility report on taking the line across River Musi, there could be clarity after the GHMC polls.