http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/Metro-sets-new-travel-time-limits-for-commuters/article13990224.ece

In order to decongest metro stations, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has set new travel time limits for its commuters. At present, each metro commuter is allowed to stay for 170 minutes within the network, but now the corporation has divided the travel time into three zones with the minimum limit being 65 minutes and the maximum being 180 minutes.The change comes after a DMRC survey revealed that at least a lakh passengers exceed the current uniform travel time of 170 minutes every month – a key factor, it claims, that contributes in overcrowding of the stations. Monday onwards, the time period for which commuters will be allowed to stay within the network is going to be based on the length of her/his journey.Under the new rule, commuters travelling a distance for which the fare is up to Rs 18 (approximately 9 stations) would be allowed to stay inside the metro premises for 65 minutes. The time limit is 100 minutes for traveling up to 14 stations (fare up to Rs 23) and 180 minutes for 15 and above (fare above Rs 23). The new time limits have been arrived at after calculating the maximum possible time that a commuter could take to travel specific distances, the DMRC said.“This is aimed at controlling over crowding at stations. At present, commuters are allowed to stay inside the metro premises for 170 minutes if they enter from one station and exit from another irrespective of the distance travelled. Also, it has come to our notice that several people loiter in station premises without really bothering about the Rs 10 penalty,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC.However, offenders will be penalised only February 1 onwards. “This month passengers won’t be penalised as we need to first make them aware of the new system. The penalty amount is going to remain the same at Rs 10 for every extra hour (maximum Rs. 50 as per DMRC business rules),” he added. The DMRC will make announcements regarding the same till January 31.From Monday to January 31, the travel cards or token of commuters staying beyond the stipulated time will show error number 159. They will then have to report to customer care centres to make an exit without any penalty. The stations covered under the three time zones will be displayed at all stations. This will help commuters ascertain in how much time they should make an exit.Speaking on the penalty cases in the last six months, Mr Dayal informed that last month 1,08,513 commuters were penalized for overstaying in the metro network. “At 1,27,897, September had the highest number of offenders which was followed by the month of August with 1,27,783 cases of penalty being recorded. In November, 1,13,972 commuters were penalised.