http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Vijayawada/Metro-rail-yet-to-get-green-signal/article14022419.ece

The much hyped Metro rail project is unlikely to be launched in near future though the authorities are planning to kick start the works on Eluru Road and complete the same by 2018.The State government made a hullabaloo on the project and authorities began announcing new proposals one after the other. More so, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) went ahead and invited tenders from infrastructure companies for the project.In fact, the Centre hasn’t cleared the project so far. And, it was evident from Governor E.S.L. Narasimhan speech during the Republic Day celebrations here on Tuesday. The Governor said: “Vijayawada Metro Rail Project will begin once clearances are obtained from the Ministry of Urban Development.”The government was not clear whether the SPV was formed for the Vijayawada metro rail though it said that Detailed Project Reports (DPRs) was ready for the Vijayawada and Visakahapatnam metro rails were ready.Mr. Narasimhan said: “The DPRs for Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam Metro Rail Projects are ready.The government has formed a Special Purpose Vehicle to start the work on Vizag Metro Rail immediately at a cost of Rs. 12,725 crore.”The project hit its first blockade with the Central government raising several shortcomings in the DPR submitted by State government, in August last year. The Ministry pointed out many shortcomings and doubted the feasibility of the project.The Ministry of Urban Development had pointed out that the DPR was not meeting the criteria Metro Rail. The peak hour per direction traffic (PHPDT) should be more than 20,000 for at least 5km of continuous length by 2021. However, it would achieve only in the year 2041.The projected PHPDT for both corridors is only 12,700. Subsequently, at a meeting with E. Sreedharan, the Andhra Pradesh Government’s advisor for metro rail projects in the State, in September, Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu is said to have remarked that funding would not be a problem for project as he could turn to the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) for financial assistance.A day after it, Union Urban Development Minister M. Venkaiah Naidu said that the population criteria might not be an issue and asserted that there was no going back on the project rekindling hopes.The DMRC floated tenders but the prospective bidder sought extension of the deadline.So far, the DMRC has extended the deadline four times for want of response and requests from the prospective bidders.According to information, the bidders are taking up surveys and studies on their own. The DMRC officials, however, are tight lipped in this regard.Vijayawada Metro Rail Project will begin once clearances are obtained from the Ministry of Urban Development- E.S.L. Narasimhan,Governor