http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/MIM-takes-pride-of-place-in-women%E2%80%99s-quota/article14000755.ece

Fifty percent reservation for women in a civic body election with a reservation for BCs within this quota is indeed a progressive step. But there is one party which has been doing well on this front for close to three decades now — All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM).Meaning: the percentage of women corporators/counsellors the party had through these years was way above the percentage of women’s reservation mandated by successive State governments. In 1986, the year that the High Court intervened to make civic body elections mandatory, over 15 per cent ( numbering 6) of the 38 seats the party held in the civic body were occupied by women. This, when the State had mandated only 9 per cent reservation for women. In successive civic body elections too, women held their place among AIMIM’s candidates.In 2002, when women’s reservation was mandated to be one-third of the total number of seats, out of 36 corporators and counsellors of the party, 41 per cent (15) were women. Though it witnessed a fall in women representation, in 2009 too the party repeated this trend, as 30 per cent of its seats in the seven Assembly constituencies were reserved for women. “The party always encouraged women candidates and it has had BC, SC and ST seats that women occupy. In fact, just 8 out of 44 wards which AIMIM hold are for open category competition,” said the party’s MLC Syed Amin Jafri.Currently, out of the 44 wards of AIMIM 22 are reserved for women. And out of this 22, 15 are reserved for BC women. “The number of fielded women candidates was always obviously higher than that of those who won,” Mr. Jafri said. In an earlier communication with The Hindu , Asaduddin Owaisi, AIMIM president, had said that the party had already welcomed 50 per cent reservation for women. “We welcome all to join us. And that was always irrespective of gender or caste,” Mr. Owaisi said. Advocate Mohsina Parveen who was AIMIM’s corporator from Vijayanagar Colony from 2009 to 2014 said she had entered the fray to fulfil a social commitment.“There was a lot of work to be done for women, senior citizens and children hence I decided to apply for AIMIM ticket,” she said. During her term she had helped set up a park for senior citizens within the area. A practising advocate in City Civil Court, Yasmeen Sultana had got two terms as an AIMIM corporator (2002-2007 and 2009- 2014) from Chintal Basti. Social work was always core to her politics and she hoped to get a ticket even this time, Ms. Sultana said.In fact, the party has been fielding women candidates not just within GHMC limits but also in municipalities outside Hyderabad.