http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Minister-promises-to-take-up-farmers%E2%80%99-issues-with-Centre/article13988173.ece

Union Law Minister D.V. Sadananda Gowda interacted with farmers at Nidivelagala village in Simhadripuram mandal in Kadapa district on Thursday and assured them of putting forth their problems before the Union government and striving to get their problems solved. Mr. Gowda, a former Chief Minister of Karnataka, said the objective of his visit was to enlist the problems of various strata of people and elicit their opinion on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s rule. The Central government was extending all sorts of assistance to the Andhra Pradesh government, he said. Kadapa district was most backward among 150 districts and agriculture was the main avocation in the district, Mr. Sadananda Gowda said. Farmers of Kadapa district were giving up agriculture as it was unremunerative and migrating to Karnataka in search of work, he remarked. The Minister promised to discuss the crop insurance issue with the Chairman and Managing Director concerned and see to it that the farmers’ demand for disbursement of crop insurance was met.The Central and State governments must strive with coordination to mitigate the hardship of agriculturists, the Minister said. He stressed the need for setting up cold storage godown in Pulivendula constituency.Former Union Minister D. Purandeswari urged the Union Minister to take initiative to complete the pending irrigation projects in the State. She translated Mr. Gowda’s address in Telugu.Bharatiya Janata Party district president V. Sasibhushana Reddy said the Centre was striving for all-round development of the country. Bharatiya Kisan Sangh State vice-president N. Chandrasekhar Reddy wanted farmers given the freedom to sell their agriculture produce anywhere.A farmer, Ramana Reddy, said rainfall deficiency was a fall-out of environmental pollution and sought measures to safeguard Indian culture and traditions.Homage paidFarmers apprised the Union Minister of their woes. The BJP leaders and people observed two-minute silence to pay homage to Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Mufti Mohammed Sayeed.BJP State vice-president K. Kapileswaraiah, Jammaladugu RDO Vinayakam, BJP leaders K. Rajamohan Reddy, A. Harinath Reddy, S. Ramachandra Reddy and N. Ramesh Reddy and farmers were present.The Central government is extending all possible aid to the Andhra Pradesh governmentSadananda GowdaUnion Law Minister