http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/Ministers-embroiled-in-IAP-controversy-in-Adilabad/article13983726.ece

The two Ministers representing Adilabad district in Telangana State Cabinet are finding themselves embroiled in a controversy surrounding alleged irregularities in allocation of work under the centrally funded Integrated Action Plan (IAP) in Left-wing extremism affected districts, Adilabad being one of the 88 districts in the country where the scheme is operational.The opposition Congress charged Forest Minister Jogu Ramanna, who is also the in-charge Minister of this district and Housing Minister A. Indrakaran Reddy of ‘influencing’ officials to ignore norms in allocating developmental works for the year 2014-15 for which Additional Central Assistance (ACA) of Rs. 30 crore was given in two instalments.Adilabad district Congress Committee working president Naresh Jadhav petitioned the Lokayukta of Telangana State seeking an inquiry into the irregularities which, he alleged, pertain to sanction of work in non scheduled plain areas against norms, execution of work by unauthorised agencies and illegally splitting work to benefit the followers of politicians. It may be mentioned here that the revised guidelines for IAP works prioritise targeting the most deprived/LWE affected/Scheduled V areas of the district spending at least 65 per cent of the allocation.“The work we allocated in non scheduled areas falls under the 35 per cent chunk of allocation which can be used to develop infrastructure in the village plains,” pointed out Mr. Ramanna as he refuted the charge of irregularities, like the Housing Minister, as he discussed the issue with The Hindu . The former however, conceded that the two compound walls built around a burial and a cremation ground in Adilabad town violate the IAP guidelines.“How can laying of roads in the Forest Minister’s village -- Deepaiguda in Jainad mandal -- help control extremism and why were engineering officials relieved of their work,” questioned the Congress leader as he argued even while pointing out the fact that Deepaiguda does not figure in the list of extremist affected villages.“Logically, all the money should be spent in development of tribal and plain villages falling in the jurisdiction of the 32 police stations which are listed as being affected by naxalism,” he added. Mr. Jadhav alleged that most of the irregularities took place in the constituencies of the two Ministers, Adilabad and Nirmal, which have no police stations affected by extremism. “Can the Minister deny irregularity in spending Rs. 10 lakh from IAP funds to lay a road from Venkatapur village to the field of K. Narsa Reddy in Nirmal mandal,” he pointed out to buttress his charge.