http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Mirroring-society%E2%80%99s-waywardness/article13988565.ece

In an effort to bridge the gap between art and art lovers, Inner Vision-2016, a five-day exhibition which concluded at the India Habitat Centre recently, manifested the correlation between vibrant paintings, abstract sculptures and different sets of beliefs and feelings.The show included works of artists like Dinesh Singh Khundrakpam, Gaurav Chawla, Kamlesh Tiwari and Ruchi Chadha among others. One of the most interesting aspects of the show included metal sculptures created by Dinesh Singh which portrayed how people in contemporary times were extending a helping hand to victims of atrocities in an attempt to restore peace and harmony in society. The artist believes that art is not only about aesthetics but also acts as a tool to serve society as a whole. “If there is an unaddressed evil in society I try to show it in my works which like a mirror showcases that if something bad can happen to someone, it can happen to us as well.”Kamlesh who is also a biologist, says, “Art is something which connects mind, body, and soul together.” He believes that he has mastered various techniques of painting as he was exposed to Kumaon culture as a child. He believes nature is the soul of all art and artists are just presenters of the environment around them. Adding to this, Ruchi says, “Nature has been the inspiration of all my works as we all are a part of it.”According to Gaurav Chawla, organiser of the exhibition, for any country, art is one of the strongest aspects. “Fortunately, India is home to such rich diversity. Art has been a part of our lives since ancient times and is prominently visible in rural cultures. And this is what we are showcasing here,” says Gaurav, who also participated as an artist in the exhibition.Believing that art needs to come onto the centrestage as it represents the entire nation, Gaurav says, “It is time that we do something for professional artists who face multiple hurdles. Artists coming from underprivileged backgrounds find it difficult to communicate and make a living out of art. Despite our rich background in arts, in present times, we have been neglecting it. Art is the most significant aspect as it represents our entire nation.”Started in 2014, the annual exhibition was part of Three Aces, an initiative by Kishore Labar and Gaurav Chawla, to bring art into the life of everyone. The goal was to bring the participating artists and the patrons of art on a fair and unbiased platform.