http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/chennai/Misty-mornings-chilly-nights-ahead/article13982573.ece

Morning and nights may get mistier and chillier as night temperatures are likely to drop.Though the maximum and minimum temperatures are slightly above normal for the season, residents say they experience nippy weather by dusk.On Monday, Nungambakkam and Meenambakkam recorded a day temperature of 30.6 degree Celsius and 31.3 degree Celsius respectively, which is two degrees above normal for the season.Nights too have been slightly warmer in the city compared to suburbs, going by the night temperature recorded in Nungambakkam (22 degree Celsius) and Meenambakkam (20.5 degree Celsius).Though the northeast monsoon has withdrawn from most parts of the State, the Meteorological department is yet to announce it as some light rains are expected in a few places.S. R. Ramanan, director of Area Cyclone Warning Centre, said Chennai might experience cooler nights for the next few days anf there might be a slight drop to 21 or 20 degree Celsius.While an area’s proximity to the sea largely decides the night temperature, ‘urban heat island effect’ also has a bearing on it. In urban areas, built-up spaces trap heat and prevent it from radiating to the sky. This is one reason for urban spaces having warmer nights.“Those in the city like Triplicane or Chetpet may experience a warmer night temperature than those in Tambaram or Avadi as the former are closer to the sea,” said Mr. Ramanan.Y.E.A. Raj, former deputy director general of meteorology, Chennai, said minimum temperature dipping below 19 degree Celsius has become rare in the past decade. This could perhaps be due to the urban heat island effect.“During the early 1970s, night temperatures in Chennai used to dip below 19 degree Celsius at least for 10 days in January. Now, the frequency has reduced.”Those living in the areas far away from the sea may experience nippy weather because of the land breeze. The night temperature may drop sharply in the city when the moisture content in the air is less and the easterlies get weaker, he added.