http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/MIT-plans-to-set-up-a-football-league-of-its-own/article14025563.ece

The football-crazy students of Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT), Manipal University, will have a league of their own.Perhaps the most popular sport among MITians, there being a tremendous fan-following of major leagues around the world, the students came up with the idea of having their very own league, much on the lines of the big-time championships.According to a press release issued by the Manipal University here on Thursday, the Manipal Institute of Technology Football League (MITFL), as it is called, will kick-off on February 7.Shubh Patodi, a third-year student, is the brain behind the league.An ardent follower of the game, Mr. Patodi conceived the idea of the league at MIT which can, in due course of time, gain in status and bring laurels to not only the engineering institute but also Manipal University.Therefore, he, along with a few like-minded students, drew up a plan to have the students engaged in the sport for the next four months.G.K. Prabhu, Institute Director, has assured full support for the league and hoped that some day, it would become popular enough for students everywhere talking about it. The first season will have six clubs vying for the title.The teams were picked after trials in which about 750 students took part. The teams, Alpha Knights, Delta Warriors, Zeta Bolts, Omega Vikings, Psi Vipers, Gamma Gladiators, will play each team twice in the league and most of the games will be played on Sundays.Teams receive three points for a win and one for a draw. No points are awarded for loss. Teams are ranked by total points, then goal difference, and then goals scored.Mr. Patodi plans to add two more teams to the league and promote the sport for women as MIT has a women’s football team as well. The grounds to be used are the football grounds at MIT and End Point.Plans are on to install floodlights at the MIT grounds so that some matches can be played under lights. MITFL is sponsored by Bhai Jugaad and Webloom Solutions and more sponsors are expected to pitch in. The league is a platform for start-ups and corporates to promote themselves as their logos would be displayed on the jersey of players.