http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Tiruchirapalli/Mixed-response-to-roundabout-plan/article14019296.ece

he proposed plan to construct a roundabout near the MGR statue on Bharathidasan Road has evoked mixed response from the road users.As per the plan, a roundabout will be constructed around the MGR statue. The Tiruchi City Corporation has also encircled the area by placing boulders.To facilitate the construction, the Tiruchirappali City Corporation has rearranged the traffic flow by demolishing a portion of median on Bharathidasan Road. Since the electric post was said to be hindering the formation of roundabout, it had demanded the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) to shift it. It had paid a sum to the tune of about Rs.3 lakh for shifting the electric post. Similarly, the Corporation has also asked the Tangedco to relocate the high mast post at the centre of the proposed roundabout.As per the request, the Tangedco officials relocated the electric post on Saturday. It is likely to relocate the high mast post very soon.Ever since the new arrangement was put in place a few weeks ago, the road users find it difficult to negotiate the area due to piling up of vehicles on both sides of Bharathidasan Road. Vehicles move at snail pace during the peak hours.According to the cross section of road users, not many have opposed to the plan of constructing roundabout around the MGR statue. Many of them have welcomed the move. But, they are of the view that there is no need to allot huge space for the roundabout at the location, which is said to be precious in terms of geographical location of the area. They feel that the space will not only go idle but also force the vehicles to move on deviated route instead of straight route.“The new arrangement occupies the critical space. It should not create traffic bottleneck,” said S. Boopathi of Srinivasa Nagar, who is a regular user of the road.Many users are of the view that small roundabout can be formed by reducing the size.An official of the Tiruchi Corporation told The Hindu that the proposed roundabout had been planned after studying the traffic intensity on four roads of the junction by the Highways Research Centre. A sum of Rs.46 lakh has been allotted to level the roads on four sides of the roundabout. Once it was done, the apprehension of the public would vanish. However, the arrangement was only temporary. The Corporation would study the response of road users by reducing the size of the roundabout before starting the construction work.The new arrangement occupies the critical space. It should not create traffic bottleneck