http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/Mob-attacks-LNJP-hospital-staff-doctors-threaten-indefinite-strike/article14022040.ece

: Medical staff in Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Hospital (LNJP) held a protest demonstration and threatened to proceed on indefinite strike after a mob of 50-60 people attacked staff at the gynae-casualty department on Monday.The incident happened around 2.00 a.m, when a seven-month pregnant woman with respiratory distress was brought to the casualty department of LNJP by around 15-20 people.Dr. Pankaj Solanki, president of Federation of Resident Doctors Association (FORDA), said that from there she was shifted to the Gynae Casualty department.“Noticing that the patient was gasping, the resident doctors began performing emergency CPR, the people who had come with the patient started shouting and began fighting with the staff. Somehow, the doctors continued with the CPR, but were unable to save the patient. By this time, the number of people had gone up to 50-60, and hearing that the patient could not be saved, the mob attacked the staff. The entire department staff locked themselves in a room, with the exception of one nursing orderly who was brutally beaten up by the mob,” Dr. Solanki said.As per the staff, the police arrived at 3.00 am — after the angry mob had dispersed — and asked the doctors to resume work.“But another mob came around 5 a.m. and began breaking the department’s equipment and attacking the doctors,” said a senior staff member.Dr. Solanki said that a senior resident was seriously injured after someone broke a saline bottle on his head. Fearing threat to life, the staff eventually had to lock up the department.After the incident, resident doctors of the hospital refused to go back to work till the culprits were arrested. “The doctors and other staff were shaken and frightened and threatened to go on strike in case no action was taken by the hospital to provide them security and a safe work environment. It’s shameful, that with the coming Republic Day celebrations, the entire area around LNJP hospital has been turned into a fortress , but when doctors need protection, all security is undermined,” said Dr. Solanki.Hospital authorities have meanwhile maintained that they are looking into the situation and working towards ensuring the situation is not repeated.Staff of gynaecology department had to lock themselves inside a room to escape attack