http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/Modi-Hollande%E2%80%99s-day-out-in-the-Metro/article14020470.ece

itching their cavalcade, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and French President Francois Hollande took a Metro ride to Gurgaon to inaugurate the Interim Secretariat of the International Solar Alliance (ISA).Although the leaders sent out a strong ‘eco-friendly’ message by travelling in the mass rapid transit system, thousands of commuters were stranded at various stations on the Samaypur Badli-Huda City Centre Metro line during peak evening hours.The two leaders boarded the Metro from the Race Course station at 3:16 p.m. and got off at Arjangarh. Indian officials and the French delegation, including French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius, accompanied the two leaders. In fact, going beyond mere symbolism, the leaders again opted for the Metro on their way back from Gurgaon. A special train was arranged by the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) for the high-profile ride which was ‘point-to-point’ — it did not stop at any other station.“At 5:20 p.m., they again boarded the Metro from Guru Dronacharya station to Jorbagh station on the Yellow line. A special train was arranged to facilitate the movement of the PM and the French President in close co-ordination with security agencies,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC. The managing director of the DMRC and other operating officials were also present.It was during the second trip of the leaders that scores of commuters faced a harrowing time as entry and exit gates at several stations on the Yellow Line were shut temporarily. Entry of passengers to stations along the corridor, including INA, AIIMS, Hauz Khas, Chhatarpur, were restricted owing to security considerations, a Metro official said.“We have been stranded outside this station for almost an hour. They are not letting us in for security reasons. Frisking has been already strengthened in view of Republic Day, leading to long queues,” said Ashok Raj, who was waiting at the Hauz Khas station.However, the DMRC denied any disruption in services. “It was ensured that public services were not affected. A special train was planned in such a manner that the VIPs did not have to wait at all and subsequent Metro trains ran as per schedule,” it said.