http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Model-code-of-conduct-in-place/article14009936.ece

Clearing of files and contractors’ bills, filling vacancies in various departments, and transfers of officials will come to a halt for the next 35 days as the model code of conduct has been enforced by the State Election Commission (SEC) ahead of the zilla and taluk panchayat polls on February 13 and 20.The last two weeks have seen a series of bureaucratic reshuffles, with officials being asked to take charge immediately. Still, there were many awaiting posting orders, which will now have to wait a month.Ministers and other authorities have been barred from sanctioning grants and payments out of discretionary funds, a senior official told The Hindu . The State Cabinet meeting scheduled for Wednesday too has been postponed. File clearance will slow down as many officials have been posted as observers and on poll-related duties to various districts.The impact on expenditure will be particularly felt since two elections — to three Legislative Assembly constituencies, besides ZP/TP — have come in the last financial quarter. Incurring expenditure from the State Budget would be affected as the administrative machinery is engaged in holding elections. In fact, spending has already been poor under the Scheduled Caste Special Plan and Tribal Special Plan — just 40 per cent — during the first nine months of 2015-16. The government will not announce new tenders for projects unless specifically cleared by the SEC. In fact, there was manifold increase in file movements at the secretariat since last week. Before the announcement of elections, the Chief Minister toured several districts and laid foundations stones. Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister H.K. Patil too announced several decisions, including release of Rs. 189 crore under the Gram Vikas Yojana.Janata Dal (Secular) leader and former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy alleged that the State government has been laying foundation stones in districts keeping an eye on elections to the rural local bodies, which would be held on party lines.Investors’ meet not hitThe code of conduct will not come in the way of holding Invest-Karnataka meet from February 3 to 5 as the State government announced the event a few months ago.Authorities barred from sanctioning grants and payments out of discretionary funds