http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/Modi-pushes-for-integration-of-yoga-and-Indian-medicine-in-healthcare/article13979964.ece

Calling for the integration of yoga and traditional Indian medicine into the healthcare system and making wellness a part of the lifestyle of people, Prime Minister Narendra Modi underlined the need to address the psychological state of people’s existence, as much as the issues concerning physical and material life.Inaugurating an ‘International Conference on Frontiers in Yoga Research and its Applications’ at Jigani on Sunday, Mr. Modi called upon health professionals, policymakers, government organisations, and industry to bridge the gap between various forms of medicine systems.At the same time, clarifying that he was not advocating the supremacy of one system over the other, he said: “We can progress more by learning from each other”. Stating that “yoga is now a global heritage”, the Prime Minister said that his vision for total healthcare was an integrated system that understands and builds on the best and most effective of different traditions. “The world is embracing traditional Indian medicine with great enthusiasm. Across cultures and geography, people are increasingly taking to yoga to redefine their lives, to find oneness between inner self and outer world,” he said.Stressing the need for training teachers in yoga, which in turn would help in economic and social development of the country, he said that the days of claiming that yoga is our tradition and boasting about it is over. “It was time to act.”Adopt AYUSH system“We are placing emphasis on our efforts to increase awareness, acceptance and adaptation of the AYUSH system of medicine. We can reduce social and economic costs to our society and promote a more environment-friendly healthcare system,” Mr. Modi said.Stating that the World Health Organisation factsheet on the global burden of Non-Communicable Diseases (NCD) would affect developing countries and death rate would be eight times more than that of the developed countries by 2030, Mr. Modi cautioned about the tragedy of productive lives cut short, and families that must deal with untimely loss, the huge toll on economy, and the excessive burden on the over-stretched healthcare system. “The country stands to lose about 4.58-trillion dollars before 2030 to NCD and mental health condition. This is where yoga is paramount,” he detailed. Along with accumulated wisdom and experience gathered over time, we must apply the techniques and methods of modern science to test and validate results, assure quality and explain benefits, he said.