http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/Modi-likely-to-unveil-Mission-Kakatiya-pylon/article14006810.ece

Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to make his maiden visit to the State in his present capacity in February first week.According to Irrigation Minister T. Harish Rao, the Prime Minister would unveil a pylon of Mission Kakatiya, one of the flagship programmes of the State Government taken up for revival of minor irrigation tanks, at Warangal. He stated that Mr. Modi has already given his consent to a request made by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao.In a video conference conducted on Mission Kakatiya from Secretariat on Monday, the Minister directed the engineers to allocate a unique identity number to every tank being taken up for revival. He asked the irrigation officials to take up a joint survey with revenue officials to fix the full tank level (FTL) boundary before giving the completion report of phase-one works so that there was clarity on command area.The Minister stated that the target for second phase of the programme this year was 10,308 tanks. Estimates for about 50 per cent of the tanks proposed to be taken up were already submitted and it was in process for remaining tanks. He directed the engineers to send estimates for the remaining tanks by the month-end.An interaction session was also held for field engineers as part of the video conference with irrigation expert T. Hanumantha Rao, a retired Engineer-in-Chief. More such sessions would be held in future with experts such as Mr. Rao. The government had already taken a decision to take the help of IIT and BITS here in its endeavour to revive chain-link tank system.Meanwhile, the Irrigation Department employees in Secretariat have offered to work on every second Saturday as part of their contribution in development irrigation sector. The minister suggested them not to keep any file pending beyond 48 hours. Principal Secretary S.K. Joshi, Engineers-in-Chief C. Muralidhar and J. Vijaya Prakash and others participated.