http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/Modi-visits-Varanasi/article14013971.ece

“Let us not think about what is lacking in a person, let us see what is the extra ordinary quality a person is blessed with,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday as he visited his constituency Varanasi."When I say let's use the word Divyang it is about changing the mindset," Mr. Modi said while making a plea for doing away with the word viklang (handicapped) and instead calling the differently-abled as divyang (those born with a divine limb/organ).Attending the Divyangjan Sashaktikaran Samaroh, Mr. Modi gave away assisting devices, artificial limbs, tricycles, Braille kits, hearing aids, teaching-learning material kit and other equipment to 9,296 divyangs. Almost a dozen of them received the devices personally by the prime minister, who also gave away sewing machines to widows.This is Mr. Modi's fifth visit to his constituency since he assumed power in 2014. He last visited Varanasi on Devember 18, 2015 along with his Japanese counterpart Shinzo Abe. On Friday, Mr. Modi took time to recall the visit and even praised Mr. Abe for appreciating and mentioning his trip to Varanasi in an address in Japan.While distributing the devices, Mr. Modi also interacted with Divyang children who have overcome disabilities relating to speech and hearing with the help of the ADIP (Assistance to Disabled Persons) scheme of the Centre."I met a Divyang child called Rahul here. I was amazed to see how he operated the computer," Mr. Modi said even as he recalled some “touching experiences” he had while interacting with differently-abled persons when he was still Chief Minister of Gujarat.“In one year of this government, 1800 such camps have been held. While in the two decades not even a 100 camps were set up,” Mr. Modi said taking a jibe at previous Congress government’s indifference to the differently-abled.“The result of such camps is that middlemen will get eliminated-nut bots are being tightened and the shops of these middlemen are shutting down. And due to that some people are getting worried but not me. If I am in pained, it is by the plight of the poor in the country,” Mr. Modi said.On the way to the function, a bus carrying Divyangs met an accident injuring around 20 persons. Taking cognizance of the matter, Mr. Modi ordered swift action and officials were sent to the spot. “Most of them received minor injuries, but some will need to be hospitalized for a few days. The government will make all arrangements for treatment,” Mr. Modi said.The Prime Minister also flagged off the Mahamana Express train connecting Varanasi to New Delhi via Lucknow in a span of 14 hours. Named after Madan Mohan Malviya, the founder of the Banaras Hindu University, the train is fully equipped with modern facilities and boasts of bio toilers in every coach. It also have renovated and refurbished AC-coaches fitted with led screen. "The entire nation will talk about this train," Mr. Modi said, in presence of Manoj Sinha, the Minister of State for Railways. 