http://www.thehindu.com/sport/cricket/Mohammad-willing-to-put-in-the-extra-yards/article13997487.ece

He comes from a town famous for its Biriyani. But then the stuff M. Mohammad serves the batsmen with is a lot hotter than Dindigul’s favourite dish.Among the brighter pace bowling prospects from the State, the 24-year-old Mohammad can work good speed from a quick-arm, semi side-on release.His captain at Vijay CC, R. Prasanna told The Hindu, “You don’t really know when he is going to release the ball. He is slippery, is quicker than he looks and regularly bowls above 130 kmph. With his natural inswing, he is always a threat to the left-handers.”In the limited opportunities he has received for Tamil Nadu this season, Mohammad has made his presence felt. His five for 86 against host Mumbai in the Ranji Trophy set up a possible win for Tamil Nadu before the batsmen blew the opportunity away.In the Vijay Hazare one-day tournament, Mohammad’s five for 50 was the high point of Tamil Nadu’s seven-wicket victory over Services in Hyderabad. He is an ‘impact bowler.’Sadly, Mohammad then suffered an injury to his left knee. “I should be all right in two to three weeks. I have to take these things in my stride. The important thing is to come back,” said Mohammad here on Saturday.Asked about his methods with the ball, Mohammad replied, “My strength is my inswing. But I am now able to get the odd delivery to straighten or move away.”In fact, he has already found some success with the away-going ball this season.“I set up Mumbai’s Aditya Tare with a delivery that came in and took the next one away. He nicked it to the ‘keeper. In the second innings too, he fell to an outswinger from me.”Mohammad credits his evolution as a paceman to Tamil Nadu’s player-cum-bowling coach L. Balaji.“Bala anna has always been there for me. Whenever I have a problem I go to him. Despite being an international cricketer, he is so approachable. I learnt to bowl the outswinger from him.”In fact, growing up in Dindigul, Balaji was Mohammad’s role model as a paceman.“It was a dream come true when I actually got to play with him in the Ranji Trophy in 2012. Even then, he would always walk up to me to give his inputs.”After his debut for the State in 2012, Mohammad has been making steady if not spectacular progress.Prasanna said, “Mohammad is disciplined, never misses a practice session. On the field, he is every captain’s dream. If we want him to be restrictive, he checks the flow of runs. If the team wants him to attack, he goes all out for wickets.”He is strong, stands at 5’11’’ and has this knack of picking key wickets. Mohammad realises too that life can be punishing for a paceman in India and a team’s requirements might depend on the type of pitches prepared.Physically and mentally though, Mohammad is willing to put in the extra yards.