http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/Money-lenders-fleece-borrowers/article13984380.ece

Sravanthi, a housewife from Misrigunj, who earlier lived in Meerpet, had to surrender her land documents and pay up around Rs. 21 lakh, for a loan of Rs. 4 lakh which she took from a money lender in Vanasthalipuram four years ago.Sravanthi’s mother took a loan of Rs. 1 lakh in June 2011 and Rs. 3 lakh in April 2012. “The money lenders forcefully took blank cheques, land documents from us and forced us to sign on blank promissory notes. Every month, we were forced to pay Rs. 80,000. Till January 2015, we paid Rs. 21.10 lakh,” she told the police.Her husband, who works as software professional paid the amount by selling jewellery and taking hand loans from friends and relatives. However, they could not get back the cheques, land documents and other papers. “The money lenders threatened to kill my husband. While we continued to pay him money, the bank officials sealed our house as we could not repay a home loan,” she sobbed while narrating her ordeal.The story of Mohd. Kaleemuddin, a chicken shop owner of Madannapet, was not different. The 34-year-old man had attempted to end his life and consumed poison allegedly due to the harassment of money lenders six months ago.“I borrowed around Rs. 18 lakh over a period of time from six money lenders for business purpose. In the end I sold off my house and two shops and paid back Rs. 54 lakh. Harassment and threats have only increased after the police registered a case against money lenders,” Kaleem said.G. Suvarna approached the police, as the money lender took away pension book of her mother-in-law and kept with him.“Every month my mother-in-law goes to his house. Then both of them go to bank and after withdrawing the money the money lender takes Rs. 2,000 and hands over the remaining amount. It is interest for Rs. 2.10 lakh which my husband took around 10 years ago and we are still repaying it,” Suvarna explained.Around 15 victims approached the police on Tuesday and met the police officials.“Ten cases have been registered against the money-lenders till now. More persons could come forward and lodge complaints with us. Let me tell, there is nothing to fear,” Additional DCP (south) K Babu Rao said, adding proposal for invoking Prevention of Dangerous Activities Act against 20 money lenders are being sent to the higher-ups.Ten cases have been registered against the money lenders till now by around 15 victims who approached the police on Tuesday