http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/tamil-nadu/Monkey-Rehabilitation-Centre-nearing-completion/article13983112.ece

Construction of the Monkey Rehabilitation Centre on the premises of Vellode Bird Sanctuary is getting closer to completion.The facility will be used to treat wounded monkeys and other wild animals as well. After recovery, the animals will be released into the wild, said Nagarajan, District Forest Officer of Erode Division.Main construction has been completed, and the interior wiring and plumbing work has to be carried out, he said.Once completed, the facility would have a full-time veterinary doctor, an assistant, and other staff. The facility is large enough to provide treatment for five to six animals at a given point of time.The Forest Department, sources said, has also been mandated with the responsibility of using the Centre to address monkey menace. Farmers dread the Common Indian Monkey, as it destroys banana crops. They also stray into human habitations. Such instances are common in Chennimalai. But, so far, there has been no mechanism to deal with the menace that would usually surface during summer. While trapping the animals and letting them into the wild is a solution, the long-time remedy would be through sterlising the animals before letting them free, sources said.During 2014-15, the State Government sanctioned Rs. 2.75 crore for establishing two monkey capturing units based at Vandalur and Velachery, a Nodal Centre at Zoo Veterinary Hospital in Arignar Anna Zoological Park, Vandalur, and 10 Cluster Rehabilitation Centres at Ooty, Coimbatore, Salem, Erode, Vellore, Tiruchi, Madurai, Tirunelveli, Ramanathapuram, and Kanniyakumari districts.The Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun, has devised standard operating procedure to sterilise monkeys through a combination of tubectomy, vasectomy and oral contraceptives. The strategy would work in the long run since the simian population could be contained, and reversed. On an average, a female monkey has eight to 10 offspring in its lifetime. The population control strategy also involves simultaneous administering of oral contraceptives to roaming troupes of monkeys, sources said.