http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/More-melodies-at-Vasantha-Ritu/article14000103.ece

Do you know that this year Bengaluru will host nearly 150 classical music and dance programmes in 45 days?They are being organised by about 25 entities in 30 venues. This melodic season is being labelled ‘Bengaluru Vasanthotsava’, a common banner under which all music organisations will conduct their individual concerts and programmes, bringing a branding to Bengaluru’s culture scene.“The onset of Vasantha Ritu or the Spring, is a time of classical music and dance events between January 14 and February 29. So most of us representing music organisations and conducting programmes this time round have agreed to take the cause of music forward while operating under a common placard of ‘Bengaluru Vasanthotsava,” says Arvind Brahmakal, Hon. Secretary of Karnataka Fine Arts Council.Several participantsBengaluru Vasanthotsava will be on the lines of Margazhi in Chennai, which comprises hundreds of organisations showcasing their programmes.Many organisers feel that the pleasant climate with a no-rain, no-exam, no IPL scene is ideally suited for such gatherings. “Artistes visiting Chennai can drop in here too. Besides, with no other major festival happening elsewhere, artistes are easily available,” says K.N. Anantharamaiah of BTM Cultural Academy.Special bookletTo make it easier to pick and choose concerts, sabha heads have come forward to bring out a pocket-friendly booklet containing details of concert schedule, artistes, venue and time. Murali Krishna of Gana Rasika Mandali, who compiled the Bengaluru Vasanthotsava booklet in less than a month, says “This is just the beginning. Bengaluru will see a sea of concerts. With 90 per cent of the concerts being free, Vasanthotsava could well bring in a new economy to Bengaluru.”These booklets are available at all local outlets free of cost. One can also write tovasanthotsava.bengaluru @gmail.comfor a soft copy.Where Bengaluru scores is in the variety of classical dance, Carnatic and Hindustani. With branding, all these will have better representation of sabhas and artistesS. Shankar,Carnatic vocalist