http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/More-municipal-wards-likely/article14011071.ece

: The next time that Delhiites vote for their local councillors, the map of the city’s municipal wards may look different than it does today, with the delimitation exercise in full swing.With the Capital’s three municipal corporations expected to go to polls in 2017, the Delhi State Election Commission (DSEC) has started the process of delimitation of wards. The city currently has 272 municipal wards — that is an average of four in each of the 70 Assembly constituencies. Two constituencies – New Delhi and Delhi Cantonment – have their own municipal bodies.Since Delhi’s population saw a 21 per cent increase between the Census of 2001 and 2011, the number of wards and their boundaries may end up changing by the time delimitation is done in June this year. Each Assembly constituency could have anywhere from three to seven wards each, with a 10 to 15 per cent variation in the number of voters. As per Census 2011, Delhi’s population grew to 16.78 million, which means on an average the 272 wards should have 61,000 voters.“The simple principle for delimitation is ‘one person one vote’. In 2001, we had two wards per constituency; then it became four in 2007. Now, we will have one ward per 60,000 voters,” said Rakesh Mehta, the Delhi State Election Commissioner.Delhi used to have 134 wards till 2007, when the Sheila Dikshit government decided to increase the number. In February 2007, before the elections to the then-unified Municipal Corporation of Delhi, the State Election Commission issued an order to divide Delhi into a minimum of 272 wards.Former CM Sheila Dikshit told The Hindu that the delimitation process takes into account opinions from a range of stakeholders, including politicians. “The Commissioner draws on the collective wisdom. It is difficult to comment on the current process till the delimitation is final,” said Ms. Dikshit.Sources in the corporations said that the previous delimitation exercises were governed by political motives. This time, however, a more equitable distribution is likely.Currently, votes in a larger ward carry less weight compared to those in smaller wards. “The bigger the population the lighter the vote and vice versa. This is in conflict with the principle of ‘one person one vote,” explained Mr. Mehta.While the boundaries and number of wards may change, the Commission will be confined to the boundaries of Assembly constituencies, which are frozen till 2036.The Commission had drawn up an extract of the ward-wise information and the constituency population data in September 2015. It then scanned all the maps of the 33,000 enumeration blocks (each block is 250 houses) provided by the Census Directorate, and embedded the maps on the ward maps. Currently, the Commission is in the process of delimitation according to the principles laid out. The draft delimitation will be ready by April 30 and be put in the public domain by May 15. Objections and suggestions will be processed by July 15, and a final order will be sent to the government for approval by July 31.