http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/MPM-employees-resolve-to-continue-stir/article14020576.ece

Even though Minister for Heavy Industries R.V. Deshapande directed the management of Mysore Paper Mills (MPM), a public-sector unit at Bhadravati, to drop the disciplinary action initiated against a few employees, the MPM Employees’ Association has decided to continue the indefinite protest it has been staging since November 22, 2015 seeking fulfilment of its various demands.C.S. Shivamurthy, president of the association, told The Hindu that although the outcome of the meeting had brought some relief to the workers, their demands had not met fully. As MPM was incurring loss for the last few years, it had been planned to handover the firm to a private party on lease basis. The State government had formed a high-power committee, headed by its Chief Secretary, to work out the modalities pertaining to handing over the firm on lease.According to sources, prior to inviting expression of interest from private firms on running the firm on a lease basis, the management was planning to rationalise its operations by cutting down expenses.As part of the cost-cutting measures, the management had directed that 597 permanent workers and 55 officials to proceed on earned leave for an indefinite period from November 21.The management had also submitted an application with the Commissioner of Labour seeking permission to lay-off 1,152 workers, including the 597 permanent workers, 55 officials and 500 workers serving on a contract basis. In addition, the meeting of administrative board of MPM held recently had decided to withdraw some of the perks being offered to the employees, freeze their dearness allowance, impose a ceiling on employer's contribution to provident fund and reimbursement of medical expenses. The workers have been staging an indefinite protest against the alleged anti-labour policies of the management.Minister of State for Primary and Secondary Education Kimmane Ratnakar, Deputy Chairman of State Planning Board C.M. Ibrahim, Managing Director of MPM Harsh Gupta, functionaries of employees’ association and senior officials of finance, heavy industries and labour departments attended the meeting held at Bengaluru on January 23 under the chairmanship of Mr. Deshapande.The functionaries of MPM Employees Association, who spoke at the meeting, expressed displeasure over the management suspending the protesting employees, serving showcause notices and issuing transfer orders to them. According to sources, Mr. Deshapande had directed Mr. Gupta to withdraw the showcause notices, suspension and transfer orders.Mr. Deshapande directed the management of MPM and the officials of the Department of Finance to initiate necessary action to workout a lucrative voluntary retirement scheme for the employees.Mr. Rathnakar, during his address at the meeting, had underscored the need to have a cordial relationship between the management and the workers to run the firm successfully.Mr. Shivamurthy said that revoking the order related to earned leave and withdrawal of perks were the main demands.After these orders were withdrawn, the association would call off the protest and hold talks with the management on all pending issues, including handing over the firm to a private party on lease basis, he said.