http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/MP%E2%80%99s-missive-seeks-removal-of-CFTRI-head/article13993293.ece

Escalating the imbroglio in Central Food Technological Research Institute (CFTRI), Pratap Simha, MP, has written to the Director-General of Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) and sought temporary removal of CFTRI Director Ram Rajasekharan to facilitate an investigation against him.The MP’s letter to Director-General Girish Sahni on Friday follows Dr. Rajasekharan’s press release denying allegations of language discrimination and anti-Kannada attitude, which were levelled against him by Mr. Simha in the presence of Union Minister for Science and Technology Harsh Vardhan.In the letter, a copy of which Mr. Simha shared with The Hindu by email, the MP has not only accused Dr. Rajasekharan of “boasting” and “taking credit” for works several years old, but also committing irregularities in recruitment, besides harassment of staff, including women.“Hence, appropriate action needs to be taken immediately to keep him out of authority at least for a period of three to six months for proper investigation to take place. CSIR may depute senior directors or scientists to conduct an impartial investigation. Immediate action is required so that destruction of evidence is avoided,” Mr. Simha said in the letter, a copy of which has also been marked to Dr. Harsh Vardhan.“After he taking over (sic), I wish to know what are the new products developed and given to industry for which he has shown leadership or guidance. I raised valid issue of sustainability of Chia (like Vanilla). I wish he had answered for this in the media instead of mere accusations. Two years back, he boasted of green milk as his visionary project, again in the media and also during international conference at Mysuru. Even today, we do not hear about it after deploying several staff members on this project and spending large amount of public funds,” Mr. Simha said.Speaking to this correspondent, Mr. Simha referred to a case made out against three employees of CFTRI by Dr. Rajasekharan for speaking to the media, and sought a clarification from Dr. Sahni on whether the CFTRI Director had the permission to go to the media against an elected representative.Mr. Simha said there were several issues and complaints pending against Dr. Rajasekharan, including his own appointment at CFTRI.