http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Mangalore/MRPL-to-get-dedicated-Railway-siding-in-2-years/article14002260.ece

The Mangalore Refineries and Petrochemicals Ltd., (MRPL) will have its Railway siding (loading/ unloading facility) within its premises in about two years, which will reduce its dependency on transportation of cargo through road.Several products of MRPL, including petrol, diesel and aviation turbine fuel, pet coke, liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), among others are at present being transported predominantly by road. The Railway siding would ensure that a majority of the bulk products are loaded on goods trains/ rakes, thereby reduce the number of goods vehicles on roads and bring down pollution levels, besides avoiding spillage (of pet coke).A senior MRPL official told The Hindu that Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd., (KRCL) would construct the Railway siding with a spur line from Thokur for which the company’s board has already given the approval. MRPL on its own would build a mechanised handling facility to load pet coke on Railway rakes. About 30 acres of MRPL land would be utilised for the Railway siding.MRPL would initially move only pet coke, about 0.5 million tonnes a year. Construction of the siding and mechanised handling would cost about Rs. 90 crore for MRPL.Project completionMeanwhile, Minister for Railways Suresh Prabhu will lay the foundation stone for the project, when arrives to inaugurate the escalator facility at the Udupi Railway Station on Monday evening.A release from KRCL said that the project would get completed in about two years. On an average, 2,800 tonnes of cargo is generated out of MRPL turning out to be an incremental loading of about one million tonnes a year.With the Railway siding, the entire production of MRPL could be loaded into trains inside the MRPL premises, avoiding multiple handling of product that happens while transporting the goods by road. The move, besides being environment-friendly, is safer too, the KRCL said.KRCL would construct the 1.5-km-long Railway siding with two lines taking off from Thokur Railway Station at a cost of Rs. 46 crore. The two-line siding would be 800 m. long to facilitate stationing of goods trains and loading the products.Initial attemptMRPL first experimented with the transportation of pet coke by Rail last month, when it loaded about 3,500 tonnes of pet coke to Kalaburgi at the Railway siding of adjoining New Mangalore Port Trust. The move had replaced about 190 trucks from the road; subsequently the company had despatched a few more consignments by Rail. Southern Railway had handled the cargo then.It will help to ensure smoother cargo handling and reduce dependency on road transportKonkan Railway to construct a spur line of about 1.75 km into MRPL premises from ThokurThe two-line siding would be 800 mt longProject cost estimated at Rs. 46 crore for siding and Rs. 45 crore for mechanised handlingCompletion target – two yearsMRPL produces about 0.8 million tonnes (MT) of LPG, 04 MT polypropylene, 0.9 MT pet coke, 0.15 MT sulphur, 0.2 MT bitumen, 7 MT diesel, 1.2 MT petrol, 2 MT kerosene and ATF and 1 MT naphtha every yearMRPL to build mechanised pet coke loading facility at the siding