http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/society/Much-more-than-a-tough-cop/article14012046.ece

There is only one story that India’s top cop loves to share. “And that is the story that I have lived,” she declares. Almost a decade ago she resigned from the police force, she has donned the role of a social activist and we have seen her in political avatar. But it is the image of Kiran Bedi in her Khaki uniform that remains as endearing as ever.“I am repeatedly asked how my parents groomed me, how my teachers helped me and how I kept myself focussed as a teenager,” she says. To address such questions and inspire the youth who want to learn from her experiences, she and her sisters penned a series documenting her life.The first in the series, “Making of the Top Cop”, an illustrative story about her life before her years in the Khaki was released two winters ago and has been published in 16 languages. The second one focussing on her 35 years of service as one of the most daring IPS officers titled “Making of the Tough Cop” is ready for release shortly. There will be two more after this, she says. The third one on her tenure as IG-Prisons and the reforms she introduced and the last one which will show her in total activism, as founder of two NGOs that support the rural and urban poor. “I always knew what I want to do,” she says, “and I never let myself fail.” “I am a product of myself and always in charge of myself,” she adds.Whether it was playing tennis and winning championships or choosing her subjects to graduate in and excelling, joining the IPS or taking on political leaders, Kiran Bedi has always been known for speaking her mind out.“My upbringing was unfettered,” she says, adding, “My parents always encouraged me and gave me the freedom to follow my heart. Time management and value for time learnt early as a child are my two most valuable assets.”Kiran Bedi has been travelling a lot of late and winning the hearts of young audiences with tips like these. She was in the Temple Town on an invitation from Young Indians (Madurai Chapter) and shared her life’s story with school and college students who filled up the auditorium at the Thiagarajar College of Engineering. Her talk was short and crisp lasting less than 30 minutes. The question-hour session and the interaction with the students went on for double the time. And then she had to stay on much longer mobbed that she was for autographs, photographs and selfies!Her pan-India popularity especially among youths, and in particular young girls, came out to the fore as most present there agreed that being a woman and cop was more challenging than they knew or could perhaps fathom.“In our society, women are commodified and police is demonised,” she tells later during a brief and racy chat, “and I am both, a lady police officer!”Since she chose a path less travelled and even after the then Union Home Minister K.C.Pant in 1972 asked her whether she would reconsider her decision to join the IPS, did she have to prove herself constantly? “It takes a very strong personality to be a lone woman in a male world. At the National Police Academy, I was the only woman among 80 other male cadets.”So what drove her to such a demanding job? It was a lesson learnt in her early years that people of influence can help people in need. “Policing is about the power to correct and reform and provide instant justice. And I am very sensitive to injustice,” she says.Is there anything that she fears? “To be dependent on others,” pat is her reply. “If I live long and need medical support, I hope a life of dependence does not happen. For, I will hate to trouble anyone.”Extremely organised and very respectful of her time and an avid reader of spiritual books now, Kiran Bedi at 67 years continues to be fit as a fiddle.It does not mater how demanding your job is but the biggest challenge in life, she says, is to continuously raise your capacity to deliver more and better. But at the same time she feels the most over-rated virtue in our society is sacrifices made by wives to save homes or families. The biggest threat to women is the uneducated ill-behaved man, she says, and feels women should not fear to hit back.In her opinion, children need to read more of living stories today and it is in the hands of the youth to control corruption. India needs youth movements but they should remain non-political, she says.Kiran Bedi says she never had to look beyond her parents as her role models and that she could not have led a better life. “My state of mind feels exceedingly blessed and I have led a life well lived and served,” she notes and says she would love to work more on the prevention side instead of the reactive side and do things that would make peoples’ lives a little easier.Does she have any dream unfulfilled? None, she says. “I am a realist. I know what I do not want or do not like and I also do not compare myself with others.”