http://www.thehindu.com/sport/cricket/Mudgal-pained-by-DDCA%E2%80%99s-attitude/article14005413.ece

Terming his experience of staging the India-South Africa Test match at the Ferozeshah Kotla last December a “great learning curve”, Justice Mukul Mudgal, in his report on the task entrusted to him, has made a number of suggestions apart from exposing the inept side of the Delhi and District Cricket Association (DDCA).“I learnt the complexities of how a Test match is organised but also gauged some very good people in the DDCA who were dedicated to the game,” Justice Mudgal told The Hindu here on Monday. He submitted his report on the Test match organisation to Justice Badar Durrez Ahmed and Sanjeev Sachdeva of Delhi High Court.Justice Mudgal also discovered some complexities that have earned DDCA the dubious distinction as one of the worst managed associations in the country. According to the report, the DDCA officials submitted inflated bills which were later brought down when the Auditor (former Deputy CAG of India I.P. Singh) raised objections.“The tendering system was not transparent in the past and poor maintenance of records relating to contracts and work orders, delay in payment of bills,” were glaring notes by Justice Mudgal. “Many vendors complained that their bills for matches during the last 2-3 years were pending payment. Sub-committees formed after much deliberation by the DDCA officials were mostly found to be non-functional,” he pointed out in the report.In a first at the Kotla, Justice Mudgal had organised free entry for school students. He, however, discovered, “not one official was present to supervise the stand where the 8,250 school children were to be seated”.In comparison, Justice Mudgal was pained to observe that, “A very senior official wanted most things to be done on oral instructions and fought shy of appending his signature anywhere. There is also a clamour for ascending the dais for photo opportunity during the felicitation ceremony and one senior official tried to misuse the name of the BCCI president by stating that he had been asked by him to attend the ceremony.”The truth, as Justice Mudgal wrote, was, “the BCCI president had categorically asked him not to do so”.Scathing criticismThe media manager of the DDCA came in for scathing criticism from Justice Mudgal. “The media in-charge withheld useful information on requirements. The high speed internet lines for broadcasters were possible only because of the liaison (P.K. Soni). The media in-charge did not take necessary steps to ensure proper facilities for the Press Box and the broadcasters complained that the room allotted to them was infested by pests.” So much for the so-called state-of-the-art stadium.Justice Mudgal added: “Of all the committees, the Ticket Complimentary Committee was found to be most active since inception.”They demanded five tickets each for the Executive Committee members but he sanctioned only one each. “Majority of the office bearers of DDCA,” said Justice Mudgal, “were not of much assistance for seeking permissions from various departments.”Among some important suggestions he made were, “Open tenders with a budget in advance; Accounts Wings to be strengthened; Absolute and immediate need of permanently numbering of the seats in the entire stadium; Ball boys for the match only be selected from Delhi state under-14 and 16 teams; Reduce the number of complimentary tickets to the EC and Sports Committee; The fans are what makes Indian cricket tick and it is absolutely essential to supply portable water free of charge, clean toilets and food at a reasonable rate as was done in this match.”Justice Mudgal was assisted by I.P. Singh, Mitali Gupta, Akanksha Rastogi, Nitin Mishra and Vidushpat Singhania apart from DDCA officials Siddharth Sahib Verma, Subhash Sharma, Rajiv Malhotra, P.K. Soni, Suresh Chopra, Chetan Chauhan, and Ravinder Manchanda.Thanks to Justice Mudgal’s committee, the DDCA could generate a surplus of Rs. 19,80,653. The committee also cleared a sum of Rs. 15 lakh for the Delhi Police Martyrs Fund, including Rs. 10 lakh arrears.In conclusion, Justice Mudgal felt, “The Ferozeshah Kotla is a great venue and it should be encouraged and improved to preserve its rich history.”