http://www.thehindu.com/books/Musings-on-the-mythical-and-the-classical/article14011956.ece

Poetry that reveals a socialist spiritual core at the heart of the sacred, the traditional and the religious is how one could best describe Prabhavarma’s Aparigraham. This poetry collection is a conscious attempt to demystify the mythical and the classical, all the while underlining the tenacious yet intangible connections between tradition and modernity in our day-to-day lives.The title poem is one of the best in the collection and has a Tagorean echo in resonating with the simplicity and philosophic depth of the songs of Gitanjali. As dusk creeps in, the child whose duty it is to kindle the temple lamps with fresh oil is lost in his play and forgets his self and the simple chore entrusted upon him. In the darkening night as he stands terrified amidst the burnt out wick lamps, a loving mother’s sweet and salty tears offer him salvation. The poem ends on a note of profound wisdom, the deeply humane and philosophic understanding that when one has vessels brimming with oil, not even the smallest wick should be permitted to be snuffed out.One of the most striking poems in the collection is ‘Anandapadmanabham’, striking a visual chord of the lord who towers over the capital city in benign grace. Yet it is not him that the poet invokes as his muse, but the vagrant mendicant who stands from dawn to dusk in the shadow of the grand portals of the temple, offering prayers and penance to the grand deity. The poet springs an eloquent surprise in the climax in comparing the deity and the devotee, the former’s grandiloquent treasure sealed in the temple vaults paling in comparison to the embers in the latter’s heart, the emerald of his tears, the rubies of the fire in his belly.The 50 poems in this collection embrace multiple themes and chart different trajectories. Most of them have a private, intimate effect, even while leaning into public concerns. Some of the poems are political and polemical in nature and carry the sharp tools of social satire. Others are suffused by an agonising search for the perfect word to illustrate the constantly eliding self.A significant appendix to the collection is the section titled ‘Chitrangana’, written to be tuned to performance for Mohiniyattam. It comprises three poems based on three significant paintings of Raja Ravi Varma, which epitomise feminine conditions of differing shades. Shakuntala’s angst as the thwarted lover who is unable to prove her identity and her love, Yashodha’s anguish of motherhood and the knowledge that her son would soon be no longer hers, and the agonies of incognito wifehood of Panchali as Sairandri are all captured in the short, pithy lines. Prabhavarma here is succinctly feminist in his verse and most poignantly captures the laments of three mythical women who are unmarked by their belonging to a man, whether it be a lover, son or husband.Here is poetry that is difficult to classify or catalogue. It is only when the little bird spreads its wings that the infinite skies suddenly realise their limits, says Prabhavarma in ‘Chirakalavu’, one of the miniscule poems towards the end of the collection. Similarly, here are poems, which, in going beyond the charted terrains of Malayalam poetry, make the reader yearn for new directions and new horizons, even while bounded and rooted in the traditional and the contemporary. A bouquet of poems, that offers us the past, present and future of Malayalam poetry.(A column on some of the best reads in Malayalam. The author is director, School of English and Foreign Languages, University of Kerala)AparigrahamPrabhavarmaMathrubhumi BooksRs. 200