http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Music-dance-festival-gets-off-to-a-tuneful-start/article14004687.ece

Sangeeta Vidwat Sabha, one of the oldest music ‘sabhas’ in the city, launched the 70th round of annual Sankranti Music and Dance Festival at Surya Kala Mandiram on the Cinema Road here on Sunday. The festival will be held for 10 days and two performances a day will be given by artistes from different parts of south India.In addition, competitions will be conducted in Carnatic vocal and veena categories in junior and senior categories at the same venue on January 24. The festival began with an instrumental music recital by Bandaru Veerababu on clarinet with support from Mantha Sri Ramya on violin, Varanasi Srinivas on mrudangam and Venturi Rama Rao on dolu, which was followed by a vocal concert by Prasanna Venkata Raman of Chennai.On the second day on Monday, separate vocal concerts by Chennai-based Girija Shankar and Shankari Krishnan will be performed. On the third day, Komanduri Seshadri will deliver a demo lecture and TK Sisters - T.K. Saroja and T.K. Sujatha – will give vocal concert. Anuvrata Narasimhan’s (Tirupati) vocal and G.A. Jayanthi’s (Chennai) flute concert will be held on the fourth day. Similarly, vocal concerts of M. Sruthi Ravali of Visakhapatnam and P. Unni Krishnan of Chennai will be held on the fifth day and Kalyan Vasanth’s (Hyderabad) vocal and Archana and Arathi duo’s (Chennai) vocal will be performed on the sixth day. On the seventh day on January 23, Varanasi-based Ankur Mishra (sitar), Sanish Jawali (flute) and Chandan Viswakarma’s (Tabla) performance will be followed by Varanasi-based K. Ambarish Chandar’s Hindusthani vocal concert. D. Ravikanth’s (Hyderabad) vocal and ‘Karthikeya Kalyanam’ dance ballet by Hari Rama Murthy’s troupe (Visakhapatnam) are scheduled for the eighth day.Vocal concertVocal concert by Bangalore-based Aditi Prahlad and instrumental music by R. Arjun Sambasivan and troupe from Chennai will mark the penultimate day. Curtains will be downed for the event with demo lecture by Malladi Suribabu and Andhra Natyam dance ballet by Kala Krishna and troupe on January 26.Competitions to be held in Carnatic vocal and veena categories on January 24