http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Musing-over-a-book/article14017681.ece

Ah! To sit beneath the sprawling branches of a tree with a book in hand, the grass beneath you, the warmth of the sun on your back – the sweet, old-world pleasures of life. But in today’s Bengaluru, where can one find peace and quiet to sit down with a good book in a concrete jungle where loud horns rule the roost? And when you feel conscious about sitting in a park?There is no dearth of libraries – the State Central Library and the British Council Library being some. Besides, Bengaluru appears to be developing a culture of quiet cafés that maintain a collection of their own books or permit customers to bring their own and settle down on a cozy armchair with a cup of coffee. The icing on the cake – they also provide spaces that are tailor made for creative self-expression.Urban Solace is one such space where people can choose from their collection of books or, bring their own to read. Perry Menzies, owner of the café asserts the need for such spaces that are not intrusive and allow people to “just be”.Tuesdays with the Bard at Urban Solace is a feast for poetry lovers, while the Urban Solace Book Club encourages stimulating discussions and book reading sessions.Perry insists on the superiority of such spaces over open ones. “Closed spaces provide a more structured environment along with audio-visual equipment and the like, creating a more enduring and empowering dynamic.”He points out that the current generation is accustomed to certain conveniences. “People now find that they are highly uncomfortable when they need to sit cross-legged on the ground. They may try it for the sheer novelty of the experience, but will eventually grow restless,” he observes.Lakshmi Sankar, co-owner of Atta Galatta, concurs. “The idea of sitting in a park with a book in hand may be charming and romantic, but there are several obstacles – the most important being stalkers and people who stare at you, making you feel uncomfortable,” she laughs.Shantanu Anand, founder of the Airplane Poetry Movement that conducts regular poetry slams and workshops in the city, looks out for cozy places where people can express themselves without inhibition. “I’m not a great fan of open spaces,” he says. “In an open space, it would be difficult to have a unified event. The element of ‘togetherness’ that we try to build with such events is lost when the four walls are taken down.”Lakshmi also points out that the inspiring factor behind Atta Galatta was the need for physical spaces where people can get together and discuss.Koshy’s – legendarily known as the adda for journalists and lawyers to write and discuss cases – continues to retain the reputation it has built over the years. Debates and arguments are just as sought after as their appam and stew. “People sometimes stay here the entire day, carrying out business transactions or just reading,” says Prem Koshy, the owner. “To disappear in the middle of the chaos, people come to Koshy’s,” he quips.Vighnesh, co-owner of Dyu Art Café, also stresses on the need for quiet spaces with minimal music, where people can unwind with a book. “Privacy as well as convenience are an important element in such cafés,” he says.Shantanu attributes the rise of such spaces to a culture of bookstores and cafes in Bengaluru. “Besides, it is the owners’ mentality as well as that of the people – the owners encourage such discussion and debate, while the customers are not disruptive and do not abuse such freedom. It’s a two-way process,” he concludes.