http://www.thehindu.com/features/kids/Music-meets-the-mind/article13999380.ece

Shyamala Miss entered the class and wrote about the 12 chakras of music that includes mind, body and soul on the board.“ Indu, Netra, Agni, Veda, Bana, Rithu, Rishi, Vasu, Brahma, Disi, Rudra and Aditya,” said the children.In tune“I am so glad that you have memorised the names of the 12 chakras of the 72 Melakarta System of Carnatic Music. Indian classical music, philosophy, yogic teachings — many of these have their roots in the four vedas. Musical notes also create magic and control our body and mind to lead us to greater heights. As we all know, music makes us happy. Music also transcends barriers — geographic, national, religious, language, caste and creed. Hence music and yoga come together to activate the 12 chakras of our body and elevates our mental state too.”“So...the 12 chakras in music is the same as the 12 chakras in yoga?” asks Rasa.“Some new ones have been added based on musical and yogic research. But the names of the chakras correspond to parts of the body which makes them easy to remember. Okay...the first one is the primal chakra. Joy chakra and sacral chakra are next. Can you guess where they are placed or activated from?” asks Shyamala Miss“Sacral...could correspond to the sacral bone ...so the lower torso Miss?” asks Mukund.“Correct. The first three lie in the lower torso. The fourth Chakra is the solar plexus chakra which is located in the centre of our body and fifth chakra is above it. The sixth chakra is known as...”“The heart, Miss...?” says Laya“Yes, the sixth chakra is indeed the heart chakra. The seventh one just above it is known as the divine chakra. The eighth chakra we use a lot in class. Can you tell me what it is?”“Throat chakra?” asks Rasa“Yes...it is important for singing. The ninth chakra is synonymous with Lord Shiva —the third eye chakra. The tenth chakra is above it and is known as the higher mental chakra.”“Is it named mental chakra because it is in the brain Miss?” asks Mukund“Yes. The 11 one is the face chakra, and the last one is on the top most point of the head and is known as the new crown chakra.”“Whew! That is a lot to remember Miss.”“Now try and draw the human body and place the chakras on it. This is your assignment for this week.”Game: Word powerCheck out the slideshow and try your hand at the game we have for you.