http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Thiruvananthapuram/MVD-e-Cabs-soon-to-rein-in-private-players/article13987859.ece

To rein in the mushrooming private multi-national Web-based cab service providers, the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) is to roll out an alternative software for its app-based call taxi service, ensuring safety and security of the passengers and the drivers.Named MVD e-Cabs, the project will enable the sleuths of the department to keep track of the movement of light motor vehicles through the Global Positioning System (GPS) installed in them. In case of emergency, the authorities can intervene and render assistance.“The IT-based transportation aggregators who have launched the online taxi service are exploiting the citizens, not taking permit and licence and refusing to pay tax,” State Transport Commissioner Tomin J. Thachankary told The Hindu on Thursday after submitting the report to the government to kick off MVD-e Cabs.The raging conflict between drivers of conventional taxis and those operating the web-based Uber and Ola taxis, the move by the CPI(M) to commence call taxi, and strike by the online taxi service providers also had led to the MVD’s new initiative.“With this, we will be able to monitor app-based taxies and put an end to complaints about exploitation”, Mr. Thachankary, who is also the Road Safety Commissioner, said. The software by the public sector Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System (DIMTS) will be used. Those owning the taxies equipped with GPS and having a smart phone or iPad with Internet connectivity can apply online. After verification by the Regional Transport Officer and police, the MVD will empanel them and issue identity cards. The drivers will have to pay a nominal fee of Rs.200 to the software service provider.Though there will be restrictions on the movement of the cabs being empanelled, the MVD is all set to roll out the service in the rural areas as well. The MVD has also decided to ensure that they interact regularly with these operators.The Transport Commissioner is to convene a meeting of the trade union representatives to take them into confidence. “We will take steps to arrange loans for drivers to purchase new vehicles,” he added.