http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Visakhapatnam/NAAC-team%E2%80%99s-visit-to-AU-begins-today/article14004844.ece

The eight-member team from the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) will begin its assessment tour of the 90-year-old Andhra University from Monday.While the university staff have been burning the night oil to keep everything in order, what appears to worry the AU management is the faculty strength.The oldest university in the State and one among the oldest in the country has been facing severe staff crunch for a decade. Despite several reminders and proposals from the university to fill the vacancies, the State government has overlooked this aspect.But despite the crunch, Vice-Chancellor G.S.N. Raju is confident that the university will sail through the assessment test and will not only retain it’s ‘A-Plus’ grading but will better its 3.65 rating that it was awarded by the previous NAAC Committee in 2008.Speaking to The Hindu here on Sunday, the V-C said that despite the faculty shortage, the university has been able maintain the desired 1:15 student-faculty ratio.“While the required faculty strength is about 1,100, we have about 411 permanent staff and about 340 ad hoc assistant professors. We have been managing by judiciously rotating the intake,” he said.Coming to placements, AU records nearly 100 per cent when it comes to its colleges of engineering and management, and about 30 per cent from its college of arts and sciences.The 90-year-old university has obtained about 358 Research and Development projects since 2008, and about Rs. 159.31 crore was sanctioned by the government, which included Rs. 10.5 crore sanctioned for six projects, at a time. “This was highest sanction to any university so far, and another Rs. 20 crore is in the pipeline,” said Prof. G.S.N. Raju.AU has about 21 patents so far and of which five were sanctioned after 2008.On the consultancy services, the V-C informed The Hindu that since 2008, about Rs. 28.15 crore worth of consultancy service was awarded and the university generated about Rs. 5.2 crore as revenue, so far.According to Prof. G.S.N. Raju, the university has an Internet bandwidth of 1 GB and all the hostels have free WiFi facility.The NAAC committee led by Prof. S.F. Patil, former V-C of Bharateeya Vidyapeeth, Mumbai, will visit all the six colleges under the university during the four days, and will take give its assessment after a detailed discussion with the V-C and the teaching community.The oldest university in the State has been facing severe staff crunch for a decade