http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/Nabam-Tuki-in-touch-with-terror-outfit-says-Governor%E2%80%99s-report/article14024626.ece

Arunachal Pradesh Governor J.P. Rajkhowa said in a four-page report to President Pranab Mukherjee on January 15 that three dissident MLAs had accused the former Chief Minister, Nabam Tuki, of “engaging with the National Socialist Council of Nagaland-Khaplang [a terrorist outfit].”He also accused Mr. Tuki of “encouraging indiscipline, lawlessness and politicking by government officials by inciting, provoking and funding Nyishi Elite Society, an apex communal organisation of Nyishis, mainly comprising government officials.”The report, contents of which were accessed by The Hindu, says the first request for invoking Article 356 of the Constitution was made on December 17 by the Governor when demonstrators, led by Mr. Tuki and Speaker Nabam Rebia, “slaughtered a ‘Mithun’ [bovine] in front of Raj Bhavan.” The bovine is considered holy for Hindus. Mr. Rajkhowa also said Mr. Tuki was inciting Nyishi student bodies and other communal organisations against the Governor, referring to his “Assamese roots.” Mr. Tuki also belongs to the Nyishi tribe.15 earlier reportsIt was on the basis of this report, which follows 15 similar reports from the Governor since September 2015, that the Union Cabinet decided to recommend President’s rule on Sunday.In the report, the Governor made 12 points advocating President’s rule.The report titled “Failure of constitutional machinery in the State of Arunachal Pradesh” said: “The State is virtually being run by a minority government for the past several months.“The Chief Minister and Ministers are publicly assailing and condemning the Governor by issuing press statements…”I was abused and restrained: GovernorMr. Rajkhowa, in the report to President Pranab Mukherjee, said: “The law and order situation has been deteriorating every passing day, and there was a total collapse of the law and order machinery on December 15, 16 and 17 in particular when no semblance of State government was seen. Only anarchical situation prevailed.”“I was abused, scolded by threatening words, even attempted to be physically assaulted and Ministers tried to physically restrain me. I was rescued by my alert staff on December 15,” said the report.