http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Naidu-promises-all-support-to-artistes/article14024394.ece

Nandi Natakotsavams-2015, the State-organised theatre festival, came to a close with a wide array of cultural activities marking the finale at the Mahati Auditorium here on Wednesday.Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu, who presided over the valedictory session, was accorded a red carpet welcome by various artistes. He even played kolatam with the artistes before reaching the venue.The Town Club circle and its surroundings were cordoned off as Mr. Naidu paid respects to former Chief Minister N.T. Rama Rao and garlanded his statue at the NTR Circle.A group of girl students from Siddhartha Degree College, Vijayawada, who are said to be the first female folk orchestra, welcomed Mr. Naidu by presenting an amazing fusion of music from the traditional (folk) instruments from Andhra Pradesh.Dressed in traditional attire, the performance was received with a thunderous applause.Interacting with the audience, Mr. Naidu sought to remind that the TDP was established by an artiste.“We have not forgotten our roots. Theatre is not only considered as a mode of relaxation but is also viewed as a medium that safeguards the culture and traditions. We will ensure that the artistes are treated well by increasing the pension, welfare schemes, etc., and by promoting the plays through such theatre festivals,” he maintained.Later, Chittoor MP N. Sivaprasad presented a brief report of the event and opined that the temple city, which is usually filled with devotees, witnessed a congregation of theatre artistes who consider their art as god.Recalling his childhood days when he and Mr. Naidu participated in a play titled ‘Paruvu Kosam’ at Chandragiri High School.Rajahmundry MP M. Murali Mohan recalled Mr. Naidu’s contribution in presenting Nandi awards to plays/dramas and said that the ‘padya natakam’, a unique aspect in Telugu theatre, had been growing by leaps and bounds in the recent times. He sought unification of various arts under Sangeetha Sahitya Nataka Academy.Rangasthala PuraskaramNoted theatre artiste J.V. Ramana Murthy was awarded the NTR Rangasthala Puraskaram by Mr. Naidu. Ministers Ganta Srinivasa Rao, P. Narayana, and B. Gopalakrishna Reddy, MLAs and MLCs took part.