http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Naidu-to-inaugurate-Kakinada-Beach-Festival-on-January-8/article13978804.ece

With Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu agreeing to inaugurate the three-day Kakinada Beach Festival, the officials revised the schedule of the event and advanced the inaugural ceremony to January 8. After participating in ‘Janmabhoomi-Maa Vooru’ programme in Kakinada rural mandal along with Finance Minister Yanamala Ramakrishnudu and Home Minister N. Chinarajappa, Mr. Naidu will inaugurate the three-day beach festival at Vakalapudi beach that was named after NTR last year on January 8.Though it is going to be the fourth round of the annual festival, it is going to be celebrated as State festival for the first time.In the last three years, various corporate companies footed the bills under the corporate social responsibility and arranged the events. This year, however, funds are going to be released from the government coffers with the government releasing Rs. 1 crore for the arrangements.Helicopter rideA series of meetings with the officials of the departments concerned are already being conducted by Collector H. Arun Kumar.Issues like short-listing of event management firm to conduct programmes like musical nites with film playback singers and other entertainment programmes, designing the stalls and adding new events to bring more colour to the festival are under way. “The copter ride arranged during the Godavari Pushkaralu was a big hit. We are planning to make the ride available to the visitors of the beach festival during the three days,” says Mr. Arun Kumar. Not just the helicopter ride, but boat rides and ship voyage are also on the pipeline.The festival is going to be a blend of tradition and modern events. One can see the traditional Garaga dance, Haridasu, Gangireddulu and folk dancers along with the rock stars, magicians and film personalities.Both the classical and modern dances will be arranged on the main dais on all the three days and special stage would be arranged for children to showcase their talent during the day time.Flower stalls from Kadiyam and food stalls set up by local hoteliers were the cynosure of all eyes in the last three days.This year, the officials are planning to increase the number food courts and to encourage the members of women-self groups to put the products made by them for sale in separate stalls.The works at the beach will be commenced in a day or two, where a welcome arch, two daises and stalls will be constructed for the festival.For the first time, it will be celebrated as State festival. The government will release Rs. 1 crore for the arrangements