http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Naidu-paints-a-rosy-picture-of-%E2%80%98Sunrise-AP%E2%80%99/article13995842.ece

Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu on Monday exuded confidence that ‘Sunrise Andhra Pradesh’ as their USP, the new State would overtake Gujarat in ease of doing business by attracting investments from across the world in manufacturing, food processing, housing, infrastructure and housing in a big way.He was delivering the keynote address at the plenary session on 'Sunrise Andhra Pradesh: Turning aspirations into reality--Vision 2029.'The session was attended among others by Union Minister for Urban Development M. Venkaiah Naidu, Union Minister of State for Finance Jayant Sinha, Asian Development Bank Country Director Teresa Kho and CII president Sumit Mazumder. Mr. Naidu’s vision to make AP the most-preferred destination by 2050 came under praise by the delegates.Painting a rosy picture about future of AP, Mr. Chandrababu Naidu said they were confident of achieving double digit growth for next 20 years due to ‘out of the box’ ideas and innovative policies.Harping on highlights in the industry policy and specific missions and campaign modes launched by AP, he said despite facing bifurcation blues the State had achieved a commendable growth rate of 11.8 per cent. The State’s target is to raise it to 14 to 15 per cent by offering good incentives to investors in various sectors in a transparent way.Inclusive growthStating that inclusive growth was his priority, he said they had urged the Centre to sanction another industrial corridor between Bangalore and Hyderabad via Kurnool to ensure that the entire State is covered by industrial corridors. Visakhapatnam and Chennai and Bangalore and Chennai Industrial Corridors are already sanctioned by the Centre.Mr. Naidu said Amaravati, the State Capital was being developed as the world’s top 10 cities."As part of port-led development, tenders for Bhavanapadu would be finalised shortly. Under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Digital India project, they were connecting cables to electric poles till the last mile by spending Rs.320 crore to provide 10 to 15 Mbps net connection to each household on payment of just Rs.100 to Rs.150 pm by June this year.e-PragatiThe Chief Minister said the government would take up road-laying with an investment of Rs.65,000 crore which includes 220-km Outer Ring Road around riverfront capital of Amaravati.He said under e-Pragati the government wanted to transact all transactions online within one and a half years.We’re confident of achieving double digit growth for the next 20 years due to ‘out of the box’ ideas and innovative policies. - N. Chandrababu Naidu, Chief Minister