http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Naidu-to-promote-beach-canal-tourism-in-big-way/article13995913.ece

Spelling out plans to transform Sunrise Andhra Pradesh into a popular tourism destination, Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu on Tuesday said that they would promote beach tourism along 974-km coastline from Itchapuram to Tada in a big way.Speaking during a session on tourism development on the concluding day of the three-day CII-Partnership Summit, he said investors should grab the opportunity to develop projects to promote beach tourism in Visakhapatnam, canal tourism in Vijayawada-Amaravati and temple tourism in Tirupati-Tirumala regions.As on the last day, total number of 27 MoUs were signed with proposals for investment of Rs.5,200 crore. The major investments include Rs.2,500 crore-proposal by Ivory Sands, which specialises in service apartments and hotels and Rs.240 crore by Intel Globe, an air transport firm.Most of the proposals received are for promoting leisure tourism, water sports, resorts and wellness centres.Mr. Naidu said that Visakhapatnam had sun-kissed beaches and green-capped hillocks and the people of the city, the largest in Navya Andhra Pradesh were also very hospitable with a robust industrial base and two ports. He said that the city could be transformed into a heaven for beach tourism. Inland waterways was another area, the Chief Minister said which had plenty of opportunities for investment.Union Minister for Civil Aviation Minister P. Ashok Gajapati Raju said that three new airport projects were coming up in the State - an international airport at Bhogapuram near Visakhapatnam, another at Nellore and the third at Kurnool.Lauding Mr. Naidu for his pro-active approach, Chairman of Zee Group and ESSEL Group Chairman Subhash Chandra said that tourism was a huge revenue-earner and job creator and the Chief Minister had the vision to explore the vast scope by inviting private investors. To give a push to the sector there should be a re-look at high dose of taxation, he opined.Leela Venture Limited CMD Vivek Nair said beach tourism should be given a big fillip by relaxing Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) restrictions. As luxury tourism would entail huge investments, the State should first concentrate on promoting other forms of tourism.