http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Vijayawada/Naidu-asks-Amaravati-ryots-to-be-flexible/article14021273.ece

Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu has virtually put the farmers of the capital city area on notice by saying the value of their land would come crashing if they continue to oppose the master plan.Indicating that the unrest would result in the focus shifting to other places, Mr. Naidu said the farmers should realise that development takes place in any area the government decides to focus on.“Entire business was concentrated in Abids area when N.T. Rama Rao was there. I took it to Cyberabad. Now, Abids is history and Cyberabad is a reality,” he said.Addressing a press conference here on Monday, Mr. Naidu said that any opposition to the proposals made in the Amaravati project would send negative signals to the world.Prospective investors would have second thoughts if there was unrest in the Capital city.The farmers should realise that ultimately their land value would come crashing.The world was talking about Amaravati “as they trust my work.”The government expected cooperation from farmers. It would speak to the farmers and would amend master plans, he said.It was unfortunate that people who supported the master plan earlier had started opposing it now. They wanted things to be done in a jiffy. “How is it possible,” he asked.It was not possible to take the project to a logical conclusion overnight. The government would resolve the issues one by one.“I cannot sit on the Amaravati project round-the-clock. I need to work on other issues — power, water, etc. — as well,” he asserted, adding, “One should have patience.”People who didn’t want to part with their lands were opposing the agricultural zones earmarked in the master plan. It means you want the land values to appreciate and expect good revenue. But don’t want the project to come up. “How is it possible?” he asked.The Chief Minister asked, “What was the value of your lands before the project was announced?“The land values got appreciated due to the Capital city project. Had the government chosen some other place, say West Godavari, development would have taken place there, he said.“The government would speak to them (farmers). The government is there to change (amend master plans) and communicate.”