http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Nandi-Natakotsavams-off-to-a-colourful-start/article14006869.ece

A series of spell-binding performances marked the inaugural of the prestigious State-organised theatre festival – ‘Nandi Natakotsavams 2015,’ which began with pomp and splendour at the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams’ Mahathi Auditorium, here on Monday.Festive atmosphere prevailed right from the beginning, as various artistes performed traditional song and dance numbers, invoking blessings from the Gods for good conduct of the event.A special performance aimed at showcasing logo of the fête, followed by the unveiling of a statue of Lord Venkateswara that marked the conclusion of the inaugural was a visual treat for the audience.Addressing the gathering, Municipal Administration Minister P. Naryana recalled the history of drama since the 8th century and elucidated on the time-line of developments till the current context. He stressed the need for safeguarding the Andhra culture and traditions and asserted that the State government would offer all necessary help to propagate the native art forms and culture, so as to preserve it for the future generations.“Apart from regular themes, playwrights must focus on the social evils and stage plays/dramas to change the people’s mindset. Such progressive arts should not be driven towards extinction. Therefore Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu, since 1998, has been encouraging theatre via this fest. We have to revive our culture and traditions, in addition to encouraging the artistes,” he added.Mr. Narayana also recalled the contributions of former Chief Minister and actor N.T. Rama Rao and asserted that the State government would conduct Nandi Natakotsavams every year on January 18, marking the death anniversary of NTR. He later inaugurated a photo exhibition on the auditorium premises.Rajahmundry MP and actor M. Muralimohan spoke on the typology of Telugu drama and stressed the need for encouraging and developing ‘padhya natakam,’ saying that it was a unique genre in the world. He also urged the parents to make their children watch plays, owing to the impact it creates on the budding minds.‘Drama mother of cinema’During her address, Nagari MLA and actor R.K. Roja termed ‘drama’ as the mother of cinema and lauded the painstaking efforts of artistes, who toil hard to put in a good show for the audience.She opined that everyone should shoulder the responsibility of bringing back the lost glory of dramatics and urged the government to create a congenial atmosphere for artistes.Chittoor MP N. Sivaprasad, Tirupati MLA M. Suguna, Collector Siddharth Jain, TTD’s Deputy EO (Temple) Chinnamgari Ramana and others also spoke. The 12-day event is organised annually by the Andhra Pradesh State Film TV and Theatre Development Corporation Limited, with the aim of encouraging creative work in presentation of theatrical plays and promote Telugu theatre. This year, the corporation has received 190 entries for Nandi Theatre Awards 2015, out of which 44 theatrical plays and playlets, spanning across various themes, will be performed during the event.