http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Visakhapatnam/Nartana-maalika-enthrals/article14003036.ece

Perfect rhythm and showcasing of artistry with clinical precision by a seven-member team of Kuchipudi dancers from Hyderabad left the audience at Shilparamam (Jatara) here awestruck.Enjoying the cool breeze and holiday spirit, the audience found themselves mesmerised at the amphitheatre, lauding the efforts of the young dancers from Sri Kiranmayuri Kala Nilayam clapping and capturing the spellbound dance sequences on their digital cams and mobile phones.The one-and-a-half-hour-long programme was organised as part of Sankranti festivities at Madhurawada, which is transforming into New Vizag, on Friday evening by the Department of Language and Culture.Named ‘Nava Nartana Maalika,’ the show was led by accomplished Kuchipudi dancer Guru Kiranmayi Desaraju, a gold medallist Masters degree-holder. The team presented six items including five of an album recently produced by the Hyderabad-based institute. Writer and dance guru Dandibhotla Vaikuntha Narayana authored the songs and choreographed them. The music and songs were composed by N. Ch. Butchaya Charyulu.Mini balletThe show started with ‘Saraswati Sthuti’, a song explaining the greatness of the goddess of knowledge. This was followed by a special composition Swara Pallavi, an ode to the Lord of Dance Nataraja – a solo item performed by Kiranmayi. Mini ballet ‘Mahaandhra Mahatyamu’ was a big hit – which highlighted the glory of the Telugu land and the people of the State. The spectators applauded it widely as the dancers paid tribute to the legends of the land and also displayed important festivals and places of AP.Upcoming dancers Sai Valli Nikitha, Sumalata, Tejaswini, and Surabhi Swati performed under guidance of Kranmayi. ‘Shanmukha Sthuti’ was the next item depicting the birth of Kumaraswamy as the second son of Lord Siva and Parvati and his emergence as the most powerful commander of Gods by slaying the demon Tarakasura. Another highlight of the show was ‘Gurusthavam,’ a song and dance tribute to the gurus. Kiranmayi’s disciples Sharanya and Pranavi performed well in this item.