http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Mangalore/Navabharath-Circle-gets-a-fresh-look/article14019417.ece

The 36th Swachch Mangaluru mission being taken up by the Ramakrishna Mutt every Sunday saw the surroundings of the Navabharath Circle in the city getting a fresh look.The drive was inaugurated by the former MLA N. Yogish Bhat and area councillor Premanand Shetty in the presence of Swami Jitakamanandaji, president, Ramakrisna Mutt, Mangaluru, and MLA Ganesh Karnik.Volunteers were first divided into four groups.The team under Brijesh cleaned the interiors of Navabharath Circle; the team of students from St. Aloysius College cleaned K.S. Rao Road; members of Art of Living cleaned Ammembala Subba Rao Pai Road [leading to Dongarkeri], and the fourth team cleaned the surroundings of the Navabharath Circle.Due to poor maintenance, Navabharath Circle had lost its beauty and was only being used to paste posters, banners and advertisements. Mr. Bhat and others cleared the weeds and cleaned the periphery of the circle. Posters were removed from the grills and railings of the circle and the railings were given a fresh coat of paint.Surroundings of Subba Rao Pai Road were full of garbage and waste. Volunteers had to finally press into service an earthmover as they were unable to manually clear the waste.The drainage in the area was used for throwing garbage. The one in front of Hotel Ocean Pearl was an example.The volunteers from Rotary Highland under the leadership of Ranjan cleaned the garbage.Mahesh K.B., volunteers from Nivedita Balaga, Students of Government First Grade College, Car Street, Students from St. Aloysius College under Alwyn Dais, lecturer, members of Art of Living under Sadashiva Kamath, members of Rotary Club of Highland under Ranjan, Satish Bhat, Seshappa Amin, K.V. Sathyanarayana, Sujith Pratap, Brijesh, Vittaldas Prabhu, Satish Rao, Ramkumar Bekal, Suresh Shetty, Dilraj Alva and several other eminent persons were present. About 150 volunteers participated in the Abhiyan.