http://www.thehindu.com/features/education/NBA-accreditation-for-Cusat%E2%80%99s-engineering-programmes/article13994066.ece

National Board of Accreditation (NBA) has accredited five B. Tech programmes offered by the School of Engineering (SOE) at the Cochin University of Science and Technology for two years under its Tier-I system.The courses accredited include engineering programmes in Civil, Computer Science and Engineering, Electrical and Electronics, Electronics and Communication and Information Technology. “It’s for the first time that an engineering institution in Kerala is getting accredited by NBA under Tier – I. Tier I programmes are housed in institutions with autonomy to review the content of curriculum and make changes as a result of recommendations from accreditation visits,” said G. Madhu, Principal of SOE.He said that the programmes offered by the Indian Institute of Technology, Indian Institute of Science, National Institute of Technology, constituent departments/colleges of Central, State and deemed-to-be universities and autonomous institutions are eligible for accreditation under Tier-I system. The colleges affiliated to a university are accredited under Tier- II system.SOE authorities are awaiting the results of evaluation of the other two B.Tech programmes that include Mechanical and Safety and Fire Engineering.The NBA’s expert team had visited the School in the first week of December for evaluation of these two courses. Dr. Madhu said that these five programmes have become eligible for “substantial equivalency” in 15 foreign countries including the United States (U.S.) and the United Kingdom (U.K.).NBA has been accorded permanent signatory status of Washington accord as on June 13. Recognition of programmes by other signatories applies only to programmes accredited by NBA that are offered by education providers accepted by NBA as Tier- 1 Institutions.The Washington Accord covers undergraduate engineering degrees under outcome-based education approach.Faculty members at SOE pointed out that it is an international accreditation agreement for professional engineering academic degrees entered in to between the bodies responsible for accreditation in its signatory countries.The agreement recognises that there is substantial equivalence of programmes accredited by the signatories. Graduates of accredited programmes in any of the signatory countries are recognised by the other signatory countries as having met the academic requirements for entry to the practice of engineering.Established in 1989, the signatories, as of 2014, include Australia, Canada, Taiwan, Hong Kong, India, Ireland, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, New Zealand, Russia, Singapore, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Turkey, U.K. and the U.S.