http://www.thehindu.com/sport/cricket/NCC-chief-given-two-weeks-to-reply-to-petitions/article13986494.ece

BCCI ombudsman A.P. Shah — former Chief Justice of the Delhi High Court and currently the chairman of the Law Commission of India — has asked K.P. Kajaria of the National Cricket Club, Kolkata, to reply within two weeks (by January 21) to representations made by its members at the vanguard of seeking justice from the club.The NCC had been under the control of former BCCI president Jagmohan Dalmiya, whose son, Avishek, had represented the club in the 86th AGM of the BCCI on November 9.Three months ago, > a petition representing the members of the Club had asked BCCI president Shashank Manohar to take action against K.P. Kajaria saying that he was illegally occupying the posts of secretary and director at the NCC for 43 years.List of complaintsThe petitioners pointed out flaws in the membership list, mismanagement in distribution of tickets and false filing with the Registrar of Companies, and ended the petition saying: “People at the BCCI often talk about cleaning up the Board. Why don’t they start by asking K.P. Kajaria to conduct the AGM and an election under the BCCI observer?”The > BCCI told its ombudsman that the NCC members should take legal recourse as the Board did not have powers to intervene in the working of its full member.The Supreme Court-appointed Justice (retd.) Lodha Commitee had proposed that the NCC be relegated to associate membership without voting rights.“The NCC held its AGM on December 31, and 29 applications from members were declared valid for election to the executive committee. The NCC has not officially declared the results, but we hear that the top 21 names in the list declared valid by Hon. Secretary, K.P. Kajaria have been elected to the executive committee,” said one of the petitioners.Those on the list are the office-bearers of the Cricket Association of Bengal, Sourav Ganguly (president), Avishek Dalmiya (hon. jt, secretary), Subir Ganguly (hon. jt. secretary) and Biswarup Dey (hon. treasurer).The others in the list of applications declared valid are Deepdas Gupta (former India cricketer), Ushanath Banerjee (BCCI’s legal counsel till December 31, 2015), Baishali Dalmiya, Koeli Dalmiya, Pawan Kumar Bhaotia, Boria Majumdar and Vivek Dalmiya.The petitioners had, in fact, taken the matter to a court in Kolkata before the AGM.“Is there not a conflict of interest in being an office-bearer of both associations?” asked a petitioner.