http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/NCP-demands-adoption-of-odd-even-plan-Maha-government-open-to-idea/article13986291.ece

The Maharashtra government is examining the odd-even car plan presently underway in Delhi and may emulate the formula in Mumbai if it proves to be a success.Finance Minister Sudhir Mungantiwar was responding to NCP’s demand for a similar formula in Mumbai.“We need to implement the even-odd car number formula on roads of Mumbai as is being done in Delhi to make Mumbai pollution free. If this plan is successfully implemented, plying of as many as 50 per cent vehicles per day on the roads will be reduced.This will also help in reducing the city’s carbon footprint as 26 per cent of green house gas emissions are caused by using petroleum products. In addition to that, the city is also seeing an increase in number of tankers, trucks, buses each day,” NCP Mumbai Unit President Sachin Ahir said.In response, Mungantiwar said the results of Delhi’s experiment will take time to show and if successful, the State government will consider implementing it in Mumbai as well.“We will do whatever it can and take in all ideas to reduce traffic and pollution levels in Mumbai. Delhi has started with this experiment. The results will take time to show. It has just been 4 days now and we can’t judge the effects in four days. We will later know how beneficial the scheme was for Delhi,” Mungantiwar said.“If we feel the experiment is successful, it can be applied anywhere in the country. Accepting good things is the specialty of 21st century. We should be open to new ideas while remembering that we do not get overboard before knowing the results of new ideas,” he added.He further said that the government is open to accepting new ideas from other State governments if it can prove beneficial for Maharashtra.“We are examining the scheme. If it is successful, it can be applied to Mumbai as well so that traffic congestion and pollution reduces in the city. We will accept all that is necessary. We do not have to pay a royalty to Delhi government if we borrow their scheme. We can apply it whenever we want to,” Mungantiwar said.