http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/NDMC-announces-budget-sets-%E2%80%98smart%E2%80%99-goals-for-itself/article14000615.ece

‘Smart’ projects will top the New Delhi Municipal Council’s (NDMC) agenda in the next financial year, even though many proposals in the 2016-2017 budget presented on Wednesday are rehashed versions of old initiatives.The budget, presented by NDMC chairperson Naresh Kumar, again focused on pet projects of the Union government — including Smart Cities, Digital India and Swachh Bharat. Projects for a smart electricity grid, lighting, teaching and parking were part of the budget for the second year in a row. The NDMC is competing in the Union Urban Development Ministry’s Smart Cities Challenge (Stage-2). If selected, the civic body will receive funding for many of the projects.Mr. Kumar proposed a cloud-based hospital management information system for all NDMC healthcare institutions, as well as a state-of-the-art AYUSH polyclinic.In the education sector, ‘smart’ classrooms for students of classes VI to XII would be set up.Apart from high-end computers, projectors and interactive white-boards, the schools will be given subject matter.As part of the Skill India initiative, three skill training centres would be set up in collaboration with the National Skill Development Council.Taking off from the Centre’s focus on energy efficiency, the NDMC will also set up a ‘smart’ grid to improve the power distribution infrastructure and consumer services like billing. Further, to give entrepreneurs an opportunity to grow, the NDMC will set up an incubation centre for the IT industry with the help of Software Technology Parks of India.Though there are few new initiatives, many proposals in the 2016-17 budget are those that the NDMC failed to implement this financial year.For instance, the ‘smart poles’ project was presented last year but was stopped due to irregularities in the tendering process. A new tender will be floated soon, said Mr. Kumar.A dedicated cab service for and by women called ‘Shakti Cabs’ was included in last year’s budget, but the project failed to take off.Mr. Kumar said that the NDMC is in talks with banks to help women drivers get loans to buy cabs. “Some projects could not work out during the current financial year. But, we are working on implementing them,” said Mr. Kumar.Another project that failed to take off was a world-class football academy at Shera Maidan behind N.P. Senior Secondary School on Mandir Marg.“The fundamental issue is that the area demarcated for the football academy could be in the protected ridge area. We have asked the Forest Department to clarify,” said Mr. Kumar.Projects for a smart electricity grid, teaching and parking are part of the budget for the second year