http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Kochi/Need-more-antibiotics-says-expert/article14024466.ece

With antibiotic-resistant bacterial infections rising globally, India is about ten years late in evolving a consensus on this vital issue as the State government sets the tone for an antibiotic policy, says Dr. Alison Holmes , Director, NIHR (National Institute for Health Research) Health Protection Unit on Anti-Microbial Resistance (AMR), England, and Professor of Infectious Diseases, Imperial College, London, and an expert on the European initiative called Transatlantic Taskforce on AMRIn a conversation with The Hindu , Dr. Holmes said that the World Economic Forum at Davos had deliberated on the issue of de-linking the funding of pharmaceutical industry from the treatment and evolving a new model of providing incentive to innovations in antibiotic development. It is a challenge of the health industry where the pharmaceutical companies promote the use of antibiotics as well as the warning against too much exposure.Do we need more?AH: We need more antibiotics and when they come about, we have to treasure them. The alertness of the medical world is not for a later period. We are living the risk now.OTC saleAH: We do not sell antibiotics over the counter. People should know that antibiotics are only for bacterial infection. Though it is important to cut down on unrestricted access, one has to be careful that activity around controlling access does not to interfere with treatment when it is needed.Controlling microbial activityAH: It is really important in a hospital environment. The control of infection and hygiene has to be absolutely exemplary for two reasons. We don’t want infections that will require more antibiotics and on the other side, we don’t want any highly antibiotic resistant organisms. We have to have the highest end of hygiene practised by doctors, surgeons, nurses and everybody. With the infection control programme, the hospital needs to have an antibiotic programme as well, making sure that every one knows it sticks to it.AuditAH: Audit is an assessment instrument for regular monitoring of what is being prescribed. It makes sure that hospitals have the framework and capability to deliver.InterventionAH: Should be in real time. Continuous improvement is required and leadership within the hospital to address the issue is most important.It has to be somebody who recognises problems and address it with a vision of public health.