http://www.thehindu.com/sport/cricket/Need-for-nurturing-talent-with-right-practices/article13988572.ece

Once a chucker always a chucker is a cricket maxim. Good actions take long to develop, however, bad actions take almost no effort at all. In two seasons, 100 under-16 and under-19 bowlers, mostly spinners, playing in BCCI tournaments, have been reported for suspect actions. At this point it is safe to say that it is an epidemic. Makarand WaingankarThe BCCI for its part, asked the reported bowlers to attend the rectification process at an institute in Chennai. The process at the institute is not only a long one but an expensive as well as a technical one. The results of the scientific process have to be understood, interpreted and explained to the bowler. All these tasks fall on the coach. What wasn’t accounted for was that not many States possess trained bowling coaches to remodel the action. Farcical situationThe lack of trained personnel led to the farcical situation where all the bowlers who were reported to the BCCI continued to play local cricket and bowl with their original actions. So prevalent are illegal actions and so blatant are the deviations that umpires are unwilling to believe that the respective State coaches and selectors are unaware of it.For decades chucking and its problems have been discussed but no solution has been found. Reducing the length of the pitch for under-12 and under-14 matches was discussed but it isn’t a practical solution as the same pitch then can’t be used for senior cricket. The area around the good length gets damaged if the pitch is reduced to 20 or 21 yards.Former India opening batsman Madhav Apte, who still holds the record of taking 10 for ten runs with his leg-spin bowling in an under-14 inter-school Giles Shield tournament match in 1944, says: “The length of the pitch has nothing to do with chucking. If you have a good action you can never chuck and if you don’t have a good action then you will continue to chuck even after 20 years. I was 12 when I took 10 for ten. I had a smooth action.”A good player from the age of 12-years-old is under the tutelage of many coaches until he is out of his teens. Complicating the process with either too much input or overuse of technology in the context of kids, might stop them from enjoying the game, and have them constantly doubt their game.Two issuesAs we explore the issue, two issues spring up that need addressing. One is the need for trained personnel at all levels. Karnataka State Cricket Association is perhaps the only affiliated unit of the BCCI that has set up ‘Bowling Action Review Committee’ that is headed by E.A.S. Prasanna. They follow the BCCI procedure.The second is the need for nurturing young talent with the right attitude and right practices.Talent Resource Development Officers (TRDO), the concept that I initiated in 2002 for the BCCI, unearthed a huge pool of talented players such as M.S. Dhoni. Now, the need of the hour is for experienced bowling TRDOs to hold zonal camps for talent identification. The progress of young bowlers who are identified through such processes should be monitored by NCA coaches.Perhaps, more than anything else, ensuring that players from the age of 11 onwards inculcate the correct practices is the most important investment State associations can make to protect the health of the game.