http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Need-to-set-up-special-courts-to-try-red-sanders-cases-says-DGP/article13984375.ece

Director-General of Police J.V. Ramudu on Tuesday stressed the need for establishing special courts to dispose of cases pertaining to red sander smuggling as the jails were filled with undertrials and offenders caught while smuggling red sanders.The DGP laid foundation stone for a Bell of Arms in the A.P. Special Police II Battalion at Kurnool. Addressing the media, Mr. Ramudu said the police would expedite inquiry into red sander cases and ensure that the culprits were punished.He emphasised the need for strengthening the Forest Act, for which amendments were already recommended to the Union government. The amendment would give more teeth to the Act and stringent punishment to offenders and the President’s assent was awaited.Though infiltration of red sander plunderers into the forests did not stop, the police tightened vigil and the offenders who entered forests were finding it difficult to get out unnoticed, the DGP said. Most infiltrators belonged to neighbouring States who operated with support from some local persons, he added.Large-scale felling of red sander trees came down and offenders were only carrying head loads, but being caught almost every day, the DGP asserted. Closed circuit cameras were being installed in the Nallamala forests and they were yielding results.The Bell of Arms sanctioned by the Centre would be constructed with an outlay of Rs. 82 lakh in APSP II Battalion, the biggest battalion in the State established in 1953 and having 1,200 personnel. It would be ready for use within the next six to eight months.Law and order situation was satisfactory with fall in the crime rate in 2015 by 18 per cent over the previous year and by 27 per cent compared to 2013, Mr. Ramudu said. Andhra Pradesh was more peaceful than several other States and it was helping the State get investments, as abundant human resources, land and water were available.He complimented Kurnool SP A. Ravikrishna for ensuring law and order. A notification would be issued shortly for police recruitment, he said.