http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/NeFMS-becomes-fully-operational/article13991483.ece

The national electronic fund management system (NeFMS), a pilot project launched by the Central government in the State for direct and faster release of wages under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), has become fully operational in the State.A. S. Abdulkalam Azad, Joint Development Commissioner, MGNREGS, told The Hindu on Saturday that the pilot project became fully operational in the State and that Rs.65 crore had been transferred to the accounts of workers through NeFMS till Friday.The setback in implementing the project had caused delay in payment to workers for the past one-and-a-half months. The Union Ministry of Rural Development had disbursed Rs.1,100.7 crore to the State, including wages to workers and material cost, till November 17 during the current fiscal. But the Ministry had not paid the remaining Rs.285.69 crore till December 29. The delay had cast a shadow on thousands of families, especially tribal people, who are dependent on the MGNREGS to meet their daily needs.Though the pilot initiative was launched on January 1, owing to some technical issues, funds could not be transferred to the account of workers in the initial days, he said. The Ministry has sanctioned Rs.365 crore to clear the arrears and the pending wages to workers would be disbursed through NeFMS on Tuesday, Mr. Azad said.The State Bank of Travancore has been selected as the nodal bank to implement the pilot scheme in the State. Under the scheme, the workers will get payment within 48 hours of fund transfer as per the order generated in grama panchayats, says K.V. Mohankumar, Mission Director, MGNREGS.As many as 21 lakh MGNREGS workers, of which 90 per cent are women, will get the benefit of the project, he adds.According to the data with the MGNREGS State Mission, 5,02,37,583 mandays could be generated in the State under the MGNREGS till Saturday during the current fiscal.