http://www.thehindu.com/business/Nepal%E2%80%99s-sole-billionaire-Chaudhary-to-invest-more-in-India/article14016042.ece

Binod Chaudhary, Nepal’s sole billionaire in the Forbes list, is planning to expand his company’s presence in India by foraying into quick service restaurant business.B Diversified CG Corp Global, the landlocked nation’s largest private business enterprise, has upgraded its headquarters in New Delhi and Mr Chaudhary’s youngest son Varun, an Executive Director in the group, has relocated to Delhi.The group which owns and operates more than 100 hotels in over dozens countries, including some in joint venture with the Taj Group in South Asia, also plans to further its presence in the fast moving consumer durables sector . The company's Wai Wai noodles brand competes with Nestlé's Maggi in India and controls 20 per cent market share currently.“We have major plans to scale up our FMCG business and the consumption of our Wai Wai noodles brand is expected to double in three years. As an extension of this brand, we have decided to start our quick service restaurant business for Wai Wai,” Binod Chaudhary, Chairman, CG Corp Global told The Hindu.“Only Wai Wai noodles-based products will be served here. Initially we are planning 10 outlets in Delhi-NCR. The trial phase will start from Delhi then we will go pan India through different phases,” he said.Mr. Chaudhary’s biggest asset is a controlling stake in Nepal's Nabil Bank, but CG's better known brands are its Wai Wai instant noodles and Nepal Ice beer, according to Forbes.His family hails from India and the group recently acquired a 51 per cent stake in India's Fern hotel chain and is building new hotels there as well as in Africa and Dubai. His investments also include telecom and hydropower. His net worth as of Saturday was $1.31 billion.The business plan is still being finalized and the venture is expected to be rolled out in the second quarter of this financial year, Chaudhary said.CG Foods, which is the FMCG arm of the group, will invest Rs 200 crore in the foods business in India to scale up production of Wai Wai noodles and snacks.CG Foods India has so far set up seven production facilities in India—from Assam to Andhra Pradesh—to supply the popular Wai Wai noodles, as well as fried snacks, wafers, and potato chips.The company plans to add four new plants in India to enhance its market share.Recently, the company roped in adman Prahalad Kakkar to devise an advertising strategy to popularize the brand across India among all age groups.The group is in the process of developing a food and industrial park in Ajmer in Rajasthan. Named as Greentech Mega Food Park, the 100-acre park will have 40 different manufacturing plants including a plant for Wai Wai. CG’s hospitality operations with brands like Taj Safari, Zinc, and Fern have so far received an investment of over $400 million and the company is working on various expansion plans, he said.“In India we are doing several hotel projects which are under construction. We are also waiting for the right time for acquisition of hotel properties here as the hospitality industry is now undergoing recession. We are planning to ramp up our budget hotel brand here. We already have seven properties. We want to ramp it up. We will concentrate mainly in C class cities where the growth potential is high. Some of these will be under management and we will own some,” Mr Chaudhary said.Zinc Journey, a brand of CG Hotels and Resorts, will be developing and managing high-end adventure, and cultural holidays in India, he said.Another group firm CG Infra Global is planning to enter the engineering, procurement and construction business in India to focus on various infrastructure projects mainly in the north.CG has also created its start-up business arm which will be funding 10 businesses and ideas from talented young Indians.