http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Neuro-sciences-conference-from-tomorrow/article14023673.ece

A three-day sixth annual conference of the Karnataka Neuro Sciences Academy will be held at the Mahadevappa Rampure Medical College here from Friday.Hyderabad Karnataka Education Society president Basavaraj Bhimalli and conference organising chairman Bharat Konin told presspersons here on Wednesday that it was for the first time that the prestigious conference of a superspeciality stream, Neuro Sciences, is being held in the Hyderabad Karnataka region.The theme of the conference was “Changing Neuro Sciences Landscape — From Ignorance to Awareness”. Experts drawn from different parts of the country will highlight the latest advances made in the field of neuro sciences and neuro surgery.More than 350 delegates, including 150 from Maharashtra, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh will participate.Dr. Konin said that the response to the conference was unprecedented and due to the heavy rush the organisers had to close registration. “Usually, in such superspeciality conferences delegate strength will be less than 200, but for this conference online registration itself has crossed the 350-mark forcing us to close registration,” he said.Prominent among the experts who will speak on the recent advances made in neuro sciences and neuro surgery include Marcus Mehlitz from Germany who will deliver a lecture on surgery in cervical spine, director of NIMHANS Satish Chandra who will speak on neurological manifestation in HIV patients and Adiol Chagla from Mumbai who will speak on complex Meningiomas. As many as 25 papers will be presented in the technical sessions and workshops.Dr. Konin said that a pre-conference workshop on neurosurgery and neurology will be held in the morning on Friday. This will be followed by technical sessions and workshops. On the final day, the annual general body meeting of the academy will be held.Dr. Konin said that Karnataka Neuro Science Academy president I.G. Bhat will deliver the “presidential oration”. The conference will be formally inaugurated on Saturday by Minister of State for Medical Education Sharanprakash Patil. Karnataka Medical Council president H. Veerabhadrappa will participate in the inaugural session.Secretary of the organising committee Shashank Ramdurg, neuro surgeons Sharangouda Patil, Santosh Mangshetty, medical director of the Mahadevappa Rampure Medical College Mallikarjun Bhandare, dean S.K. Andola, medical superintendent S.R. Harwal, HKES council members Shivanand Mankar and A.V. Deshmukh were present.