http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Vijayawada/New-model-to-make-farming-viable/article14021205.ece

The State government is working on a new model to make agriculture more viable. The government plans to bring 25 to 30 types of crops under the proposed new model and support the farmers from selection of crop to marketing the produce. The new plans would be implemented in kharif season, from March, according to Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu.Addressing a press conference here on Monday, the Chief Minister said that the government held parleys with many multi national companies and nations at the Davos summit. It was decided to launch new vision of agriculture (NVA) involving private companies, and make use of best practices across the world.Subsequently, the government was working on the model. The government would support the farmers from harvesting to post-harvesting and in marketing their produce, he said.The Chief Minister, however, did not lucidly state whether paddy would be included in the list of 25 to 30 types of crops. He merely said, “We are working on it. Fisheries and other sectors that are suitable would be included in the list.”Mr. Naidu said the government would continue to give subsidies. The government was contemplating creating an inventory of farm equipment available across the State. Thereafter, an equipment bank would be created. It would help in easy access to modern equipment by the farmers. For instance, harvesting seasons are different in West Godavari and Nellore. The same harvesting machines could be used in both the districts. It would help in modernisation and increasing the efficiency, he said.“It’s farmers’ farming”When asked whether it was corporate farming, he said, “It is not corporate farming, but farmers’ farming. It is linking the agriculture with the corporate sector.”Finance Minister Yanamala Ramakrishnudu and I&PR Minister Palle Raghunatha Reddy were present.Thrust on modernisation25 to 30 types of crops proposed under the new modelNew plans to be implemented from kharif seasonGovernment to continue to give subsidiesEquipment bank to be created in StateNew vision of agriculture, involving private companies, on the anvil