http://www.thehindu.com/news/international/New-poll-shows-Sanders-better-for-Democrats/article14131077.ece

Bernie Sanders has been complaining, for good reasons, that the mainstream media ignores him. The media has started to acknowledge him after his campaign made an impact that can no longer be ignored. But there is one crucial point that American media continues to ignore – Mr. Sanders will beat all Republican candidates by a wider margin than Hillary Clinton.Most opinion polls do not match up Mr. Sanders with Republican candidates, and whenever it has been done, the result has been the same.Analyze this In the latest, a CNN poll released on Tuesday shows, Ms. Clinton can beat Donald Trump if he is the Republican nominee, but she could lose if Marco Rubio or Ted Cruz gets the nomination. Mr. Sanders beats all the three with emphatic leads. The point that Mr. Sanders is a better general election candidate is buried in CNN’s own report on the polls.Most commentators, even after they did take note of Mr. Sanders’s presence in the field, have argued that he would not be able to garner independent votes and if he wins the nomination, Democrats will lose the general election.CNN poll bets on Sanders CNN poll match-ups predict the following outcomes that challenge yet another part of the conventional wisdom. Ms. Clinton beats Mr. Trump by eight points but Mr. Sanders beats him by 12 points; Ms. Clinton trails Mr. Rubio by three points whereas Mr. Sanders beats him by eight points; and against Mr. Cruz, Ms. Clinton trails by one point while Mr. Sanders leads by 17 points.Moreover, the Mr. Sanders is the most positively rated of all candidates in the fray.His campaign rakes in $36 million In yet another sign of his continuing rise, Mr. Sanders’ campaign raked in $ 36 million in February compared to $54.8 million raised in the previous six months. Mr. Sanders is unlikely do well in Super Tuesday states, but will come out of it with enough money and enthusiasm to fight another day.