http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/New-on-the-plate/article13984333.ece

ast year was a great time for those who love food in India: food festivals, culinary tourism and a return to traditional cuisines. However, there’s more to look forward to, says Manu Chandra, chef-partner, The Fatty Bao and Monkey Bar, and executive chef, Olive Beach, Bengaluru, in a chat with The Hindu .Contemporary fusionThe fusion of Indian restaurants and Indian cuisine was something that started in 2015 itself, but considering our appetite for seeing the familiar and stuff that’s close to our hearts being packaged in a fresh way, the trend will only grow.There will be restaurants showcasing a contemporary format, taking away from the staid Indian restaurants of yesteryears. And a lot of people are already leading the charge on that.Pan Asian popularityAgain, continuing from 2015, is the packaging of pan-Asian food in a fun, more approachable way, but with a defining format.And be it Fatty Bao (Bengaluru, Mumbai and Delhi), Pa Pa Ya (Mumbai) or Mamagoto (Mumbai, Delhi, Bengaluru, Chennai and Hyderabad), it is all about breaking away from your standard Indo-Chinese fare, which has been ruling the roost forever. And clearly, the urban centres are taking to it, because they love it.There are bold flavours, there are no set parameters on what you can serve, and at the same time, everything is high on flavour and fresh.Breaking new groundI see the rise of a bunch of chef-driven restaurants. Hopefully, a new crop of chefs are willing or looking to break new ground. In terms of success, it’s difficult to predict, but at the same time, it needs to start somewhere.Locavore goes mainstreamThis is a very personal wish/prediction.I hope for more biodiversity and local produce, more seasonal products in the repertoires of major establishments, who won’t just stick to the “safe” and imported. While this trend has been around for the past year or so, it has been very niche, and it could be a lot more widespread.It shouldn’t be boutique. Biodiversity should not be luxury; it should be mainstream.Bar-chefs and moreThe bartender and cocktail culture is definitely going to be a little more serious this year. I hope we are done and dusted with the green apple sweet martinis that plagued us for decades! We’ll have more serious flair bartenders, calling themselves bar-chefs, and they will be substantially more informed in many cases.They will try to develop newer flavours and give customers a bang for their buck.Customers winThe local neighbourhood drinking places will make an emergence again, at very, very competitive price points. There will be a price war component involved. The customers are going to be the ones who benefit.There will be a lot of places that will fold up as well, but the fact of the matter is that the customer is going to be the winner in this case. It might be a good thing, but it’s never long-term. There are many things that are always too good to be true. Apart from these predictions, I would hope that customers, too, start taking cognisance of all the efforts and energy that go into establishing great restaurants. With this mad dash to open restaurants, there are always a few good ones that have to shut shop, because loyalties are loose. And that will invariably create a trend culture instead of a food culture.(As told to Susanna Myrtle Lazarus)