http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/New-life-new-challenges/article14023730.ece

ast the unruly bushes along the Mungeshpur Drain in Baprola, south-west Delhi, as the road curves into a bend, the big blue board outside a housing complex with ‘Rajiv Ratan Awas Yojana: EWS Housing’ written is corroding away.Inside, people can be seen enjoying a leisurely Sunday afternoon — women sitting on the front porch basking in the winter sun with some rummaging their hair to pinch out lice; men playing cards in a small park near the entrance that has a few green patches; in another park, where sunlight is blocked out by the surrounding four-storied buildings, kids enjoy a game of cricket.On November 26, Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) had ‘rehabilitated’ these 550 families from the two slum camps of Jwalapuri, an industrial hub in west Delhi. “These slum dwellers can now lead a better life in their houses with no fear of eviction,” said V.K. Jain, chief executive officer, DUSIB.The people seem happy but a closer look reveals the problems that these recently turned house owners are going through.Location, location, locationA stone’s throw from where the women sit on the porch, an open drain brimming with sewage and garbage heaps on the boundary is a grim reminder of their slum life that they left two months back.“But it is worse here. There is (almost) no proper drainage system and we cannot construct anything on our own unlike earlier,” said Kamla Devi, who is now looking for a job nearby.She used to work in a shoe factory in Jwalapuri but not anymore. Back in the slum, the group of women would take a bus to the factory, a 20-minute trip, and the bus stop was barley a kilometre away. “Daily commute used to cost us Rs. 20,” said Ms. Devi.Now, after shifting to Baprola, she is paying triple. Her new home is 15km from the factory and the nearest bus stop is almost four kms away.Just as transplanted trees try to survive in the new conditions, these slum dwellers are trying to forget everything they learned over the years in the slums and adjust to a new one.The slum clusters in Jwalapuri came up as the factories in the vicinity provided them jobs. Soon, people belonging from the same community, village, religion started settling and within four decades the vacant two acre public land turned into a slum cluster, where they felt safe in this well-knitted social paradigm as community feeling ran deep within the narrow lanes.Experts say that the key reason for a slum to come up on a particular location is its proximity to the workplace.“The government has to understand that location of slums and people’s livelihood are entwined. The houses constructed for them are on the outskirts of Delhi while their workplace remains at the same spot,” said Swati Janu of microhome solutions, a social group working on slum rehabilitation.Security problemsHowever, the main reason for Ms. Kamla to give up the job was her safety.The road outside her new home doesn’t have streetlights and no bus ply on the stretch.Women feel especially unsafe here and instances of robbery have gone up.Security is a big issue inside the housing society too. The local pradhan Kamal Kishor said mobile phones, cash, goats and vegetables are stolen almost every day.Bansi Lal, another factory worker, lost his mobile within a month of moving to Baprola. Narrating the incident, he said that he and his wife were out and they didn't lock the house.When he came back, the phone was missing. “We aren’t used to locking doors in the daytime as there was no need in the jhuggis,” he said.Though he suspects his new neighbour — who belongs to a different community — he cannot complain. And going to the police is out of the question. “Instead, they will ask for money, which will be more than the worth of my phone.” But the question for these people is not only about security, it's also about survival. It was a big leap that they were not ready for.Not ready for the leapBack in the slum, life certainly was challenging, but over the years they had learned to face challenges sometimes on their own, sometimes through the community spirit.Most of these men earn between Rs. 8,000 to Rs. 15,000 per month — enough for them in to survive in a slum.But, the money is not enough in a place like this where they have to pay for electricity, water, garbage collection, and additional conveyance charges.The old ways that helped them face the winter chill are gone, they have to figure out how to insulate their new concrete houses, where water leaks through the ceiling and the chill seeps in through the broken window panes.In the slums, they would have firewood to burn.But here they will have to buy heaters and geysers to keep themselves warm — a luxury they cannot afford.Water tankers come on alternate days.Garbage was collected regularly for the first three weeks after they shifted, “but not anymore,” said Mr. Kishor.Fights over garbage dumping are routine.The stench reminds them of their slum life even though they have been stripped off whatever little comforts they had achieved there in the last three or more decades.The transition of being lifted from an unorganised economy and paradropped into an organised one has led to insecurities and social tensions among these people.While their source of income remains the same, their spending have increased, leaving them stranded at uncertain margins.“We are surviving here but not able to live,” said Ram Kishor, another factory worker.The transition of being lifted from an unorganised economy into an organised one has led to insecurities and social tensions among the dwellers