http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/New-residential-township-planned-at-Balahalli-site-allotment-at-Lalitadripura/article14000681.ece

With the new master plan as the guiding factor, the Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) will soon launch a slew of projects for the city’s growth. It has even managed to secure administration approval for a few of them, including creation of a new township at Balahalli, where MUDA will develop more than 6,000 sites and distribute it to the public. The proposed township will come up in an area of over 450 acres. Under the project, the original landowners will be made partners in the development and given 50 per cent of the developed plots in lieu of surrendering their land.They will be free to sell the land at the prevailing market rate. This is reckoned to be more profitable to the farmers than the one-time payment of compensation which leads to litigation and delays in completion of the works, said MUDA chairman K. R. Mohan Kumar. “The project will be completed in two years,” he added.Apart from Balahalli township, MUDA has plans to distribute 800 new sites at Lalitadripura and will soon invite application from site aspirants. The last time that MUDA distributed sites or created a new layout was in 2005. About 2,000 sites in R.T. Nagar is pending distribution due to a legal dispute involving 3.25 acres . MUDA has approached the High Court to permit the release of sites other than those coming under the disputed area, Mr. Kumar added.The works on construction of multi-storeyed apartments will also be launched in due course and MUDA plans to construct nearly 2,000 units of 2-BHK flats at Vijayanagar third and fourth stages.Meanwhile, MUDA is all set to transfer nearly 80 new residential layouts to the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) for maintenance. The authorities are verifying the areas and ascertaining the facilities before they are handed over to MCC. So far, 32 of the 80 layouts have been inspected and are ready for transfer.