http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/New-video-emerges-in-%E2%80%98whistleblower%E2%80%99-episode/article13994227.ece

The saga of ‘leaked’ videos continues in Chhattisgarh with yet another video surfacing on Monday which showed State Congress president Bhupesh Baghel allegedly offering a party position to the “whistleblower” in the earlier leaked tapes episode, Firoz Siddiqui, in return for the latter divulging the conversations to the media.While the visuals in the video are unclear, Mr. Baghel can be clearly heard speaking to Mr.Siddiqui, asking him to reach the office of an English newspaper on “16th”.“The deal is fixed with the English newspaper and now the national media will break the story. If there is an attack on you, we should have things in our hands. To protect you, I will make you general secretary (of Congress) if the CM does anything,” Mr. Bhagel is heard saying.In response, Mr. Siddiqui is heard requesting Mr. Baghel to make him an office bearer of the party.“Not now. I will make you (party general secretary) if they arrest you. If I make you (party secretary) now, it would appear as if you did it (leaked tapes) to get the party post,” Mr. Baghel says.The State Congress chief also mentions a “deal” and the “expulsion” of someone from the party.Mr. Baghel can be heard talking of “using national media as a shield in case the government targets” Mr.Siddiqui.“I will protect you like a shield,” Mr.Baghel is heard assuring Mr. Siddiqui.Mr. Siddqui was not available for his reaction as his phone was switched off. Mr. Baghel did not respond to the calls from The Hindu to confirm if it was his voice in the video.Mr. Baghel’s close associate and Congress spokesperson, Shailesh Nitin Trivedi defended the party chief and said: “What is objectionable in the video? If he is talking of making someone general secretary, then I don’t think there is anything objectionable in that. ”The purported conversation, if authentic, confirms that Mr. Baghel, along with Mr.Siddiqui, leaked the “audio of conversations” to allegedly fix a bypoll last year, to an English newspaper in New Delhi. The newspaper “expose” was then used by Mr. Baghel to ensure the expulsion of MLA and son of former Chief Minister Ajit Jogi, Amit Jogi, from the party for six years.