http://www.thehindu.com/features/downtown/New-landmarks-coming-up-in-south-Chennai-this-year/article14016008.ece

New landmarks will emerge in south Chennai this year. They include information technology offices, educational institutes, retail, hospitality, and entertainment chains. Some of these projects have been completed and others are still under way.The 15-acre campus of The Tamil Nadu Dr. Ambedkar Law University, near Taramani MRTS, will be inaugurated soon. At present, the university is located in R.A. Puram.Seven government law colleges in the State including the Dr. Ambedkar Government Law College are affiliated to the University which offers three and five-year programmes.“The campus offers a host of amenities including a stadium. We will shift, once the campus is inaugurated,” said a senior staff requesting anonymity.Thanks to its design, a hotel that is coming up at SRP Tools junction is already drawing a lot of attention from passersby. The hotel, being developed by Bangalore-based Brigade Group, is in the shape of a ship.“The company has tied up with Holiday Inn Express and it will be a star hotel,” said a site engineer, adding that it will also have a small retail space. The project is expected to be ready by mid-2016.Further down, at the Okkiyam Thoraipakkam junction, a seven-storey building is coming up. The board outside reads “India’s first international multiple movie theatres by Cinepolis.” The shopping mall-cum-multiplex theatre will have three floors for parking.Gandhi Mandapam Road in Kotturpuram will have one more landmark as Madras University is almost ready with its Nano Science Technology Centre. “The national centre will have researchers coming from various countries,” said David Jawahar, registrar of Madras University.While all these projects will raise the profile of south Chennai, motorists are anxious about the volume of traffic it will add to the road. Rajiv Gandhi Salai is already notorious for traffic congestion. The Ramanujan IT City in Taramani is still witnessing construction activity. Over 20,000 people are already working on the four buildings on the campus.