http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/New-UPSC-scholarship-scheme-draws-flak/article13997371.ece

The Maharashtra Cabinet on Tuesday approved a special scholarship scheme for students appearing for All India Services through UPSC examinations, but the scheme has drawn flak from training institutes in Maharashtra for ignoring the concerns of students, who prefer to write the competitive exams in their native Marathi, amongst other questions.The Devendra Fadnavis-led Cabinet cleared Rs 23.46 crore for the scholarship scheme, which will provide financial assistance to UPSC aspirants training at reputed private training institutes in Delhi, and will also include a stipend of Rs 10,000 per month for their stay during the training.UPSC aspirants, who are domiciled in Maharashtra, with a combined family income of Rs 10 lakh annually, will be eligible for the scheme. Only those candidates who have passed the main examination and reached the interview stage but failed to clear the final selection at least once in last three years will be eligible for the scheme. Applicants can only utilise once each of the three parts of the scholarship scheme which includes Part I (prelims to interview stage), Part II (mains), and Part III (interview), a Cabinet note said.“Eligible candidates will be enrolled in one of the three reputed training institutes in Delhi, and the entry fee will be paid by the government. If the selected candidates for Part I scholarship fails in the prelims, the scholarship will end for that year. But, if the candidate clears the prelims next year, he will be eligible for the scholarship for the main examinations. If the selected candidate fails in the main examination, the scholarship will end for that year, but if the candidate clears it next year, he will be given the scholarship for the interview stage,” the note said.The scheme also has some riders. For example, after his selection for the scholarship, it will be mandatory for the candidate to appear for the UPSC examination, otherwise he will have to pay back the full amount to the government. He will also need to sign a declaration to the effect.“This will not be applicable to Part I scholarship beneficiaries who fail in the prelims. Such candidates should submit monthly reports through the State Institute for Administrative Careers (SIAC), failing which, action will be taken against the candidate,” the note said.The government will appoint a monitoring and management committee to implement the scholarship scheme. The committee will review the scheme and will have powers to make suitable amends as required. Additional Chief Secretary, Planning, will be the chairperson of the committee, and Principal Secretary, Finance and Principal Secretary, Higher and Technical Education, will be members of the committee. The director of the SIAC will also be a member secretary of the panel, which will select three Delhi-based training institutes every three years.Speaking to The Hindu, former IAS officer Avinash Dharmadhikari, who runs Pune-based Chanakya Mandal, said, “This does not appear to be a well-thought out scheme. The government’s intention of encouraging more successful candidates from Maharashtra is welcome, but the scheme is essentially meant for candidates who have cleared the prelims, the mains, and failed at the interview stage. Not more than 200 to 250 candidates from Maharashtra reach the interview stage after clearing the prelims and the main exams. So, the government is restricting the scope of this scheme.”Mr Dharmadhikari, who served in the Maharashtra Chief Minister’s Office during Manohar Joshi’s tenure in 1995-1998, said, “There are psychological and others tests now that can judge the aptitude and calibre of students, and the government should have made this the eligibility test instead of offering scholarships to those who have reached the interview stage.”“Secondly, the scheme only looks at training institutes from Delhi. Why Delhi? Gone are the days when Maharashtra had very few institutes and very few students appearing for the exams. Now each year, Maharashtra contributes about 10 per cent of civil services cadre, and about 80-100 students are successful each year. Pune has emerged as a major centre, and even UPSC has taken note of the quality and integrity of entrants from Pune,” said Mr Dharmadhikari, who set up Chanakya Mandal, one of the earliest UPSC training institutes.An official from the Mumbai-based Sankalp IAS Forum said the scheme ignores the concerns of Marathi-speaking candidates who prefer to write the exams in their native language. “If the focus of the scheme is on Delhi institutes, what will those wanting to write the exams in Marathi do in Delhi? This is no different from a two-year-old scheme run by Pune-based Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Research and Training Institute (BARTI). They also provide financial assistance to students training in Delhi-based coaching institutes,” said an official, who requested anonymity. BARTI provides assistance to Scheduled Class candidates appearing for competitive exams.