http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/Nivin-is-back-in-action/article14024587.ece

Nivin Pauly opens his 2016 account at the box office with Action Hero Biju. The last year was good, given that he delivered back-to-back hits starting with Mili and wrapping up the year with the blockbusting Premam, punctuated by Oru Vadakkan Selfie and Ivide. The much-awaited Action Hero Biju is scheduled to hit the screens on February 4. He also turns producer with this film. Helming the film is Abrid Shine, who made his directorial debut in the Nivin Pauly-starrer 1983.The film is, as the tagline says, a ‘ride with a police officer’. In the film, he is a cop, a first for Nivin. It has been two years since the film 1983 and understandably, for Abrid, a lot rides on the film. There is the pressure to deliver another hit especially since the last one not only ruled the box office but also garnered awards. “Pressure is inevitable, it is natural…be it the first, second or tenth film. A filmmaker is under a lot of pressure and, of course, I am there given that there is no formula for success,” Abrid says. The promos of the film have generated a buzz and the dedicated Nivin Pauly fan following is awaiting its release.As a director, the break has been long, but like any director worth his job would, Abrid too has taken his time with this film. He spent close to 10 months on the script for which he collaborated with Muhammed Shefeeq. After the initial euphoria of 1983, of a film being accepted and embraced by the audience, it was getting back, once again, to the business of films. “On the whole, from scripting to post production, the film has taken two years. The story developed organically, naturally… but it took its time. We have been working, so technically it has not been a break,” he adds.A policeman’s story was an idea that Abrid had nurtured for a while and when he shared the idea with Nivin, the actor was in. It was around the time that Nivin was looking to turn producer. Given their history, working together with Nivin as producer was easy, says Abrid.The film tells the story of Biju Paulose, a sub-inspector with the city police and his adventures on the job. Abrid is at pains explaining that despite the film’s ‘look’ it is not an all out action film.“The film is a light take on policing, it is not the hardcore police kind of story – it is a mix of humour and action. It is about a police sub-inspector’s heroism. We see the world through his eyes – we experience his views, experiences and emotions.” Nivin’s tough, bullet-riding, sunglass-sporting cop look has added to the speculation.Anu Emmanuel appears as Benita; she made her debut as a child artiste in Swapna Sanchari. The cast includes Joju George, Jude Anthany Joseph, Kochu Preman, Kalabhavan Prajod, Saiju Kurup and Major Ravi. “In addition, there are around 35 actors, in smaller roles, whom we are introducing,” Abrid says. Cinematography is by Alex J. Pulickal, background score is by Rajesh Murugesan and lyrics are by Santosh Varma and Harinarayanan.A special treat is the return of veteran music director Jerry Amaldev to films after a hiatus.The first song released last week ‘Panineer Pookkal…,’ has Yesudas and Vani Jairam coming together for the music director.Vani Jairam had rendered the melodious ‘Olanjalikuruvi…’ with P. Jayachandran in 1983 as well.Abrid has acknowledged the pressure so then what about his expectations? “My hope, as director, at the fundamental level is that the audience might like the film. We have put forth what we believe is the best, to the best of our capabilities. We are hoping for a 100 per cent.”