http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/Nizamabad-tops-in-implementation-of-MGNREGS-in-country/article13996238.ece

The district ranks number one in several parameters in the implementation of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) not only in the State but also in the entire nation for which it has won accolades from the government.Disclosing it at a press conference here on Tuesday, Collector Yogitha Rana said that the district secured this achievement with the hard work done by the administration and cooperation of people. As against the total of 4.52 lakh cards issued to eligible workers, 4.32 lakh were provided with wage employment in the current budgetary year.As regards person days, 131.95 lakh were created followed by Adilabad (119.57 lakh); Medak (118.98 lakh); Nalgonda (114.25 lakh); Mahabubnagar (110.24 lakh); Warangal (101.05 lakh); Karimnagar (86.35 lakh); Rangareddy (76.61 lakh); and Khammam (64.07 lakh). That apart, in 94 per cent works, wages were paid to workers within three days, which is a record in itself. Revealing that education and healthcare to all people are the top most priorities of her administration this year, she said all necessary measures are being taken to ensure safe drinking water.Admitting that there is acute shortage of water in certain villages and habitations, she said an amount of Rs.2.50 crore was sanctioned and orders would be issued immediately for the provision of drinking water.Ms. Rana said that efforts are on to make the district as tuberculosis, leprosy and HIV free and also to bring the sanctioned medical and paramedical staff to government hospitals and PHCs. All the anganwadi centres would be revamped in a phased manner and medical examinations to find out protein and energy deficiencies and malnutrition among children were made mandatory, she said.Joint Collector A. Ravinder Reddy said that the district has also been ahead of other districts in meeting the target of land distribution to landless Dalit families, for which, it purchased 594 acres of cultivable land from farmers. Role of middlemen was strictly prohibited and the money was directly sent to the sellers account online. Official machinery is functioning with honesty, sincerity and transparency and public grievances are being resolved on time to the extent possible. To ensure the presence of staff at offices, biometric system was introduced, he said. Additional JC P. Rajaram, PD, DRDA P. Venkatesham, DEO K. Lingaiah, DSO Krishna Prasad and AD I and PR Y. Venkateswarlu were also present.Education and healthcare to all are my priorities this yearYogitha RanaNizamabad Collector