http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/No-clear-leads-in-triple-murder-case/article13994503.ece

Despite two dozen Delhi Police teams quizzing nearly three dozen persons till late on Monday evening, no leads emerged in connection with the murders of property dealer Sanjay Sonaria, his wife Jyoti and son Pawan at their Old Rajinder Nagar residence on Saturday.Many of those questioned by the police are property dealers from Rajinder Nagar and Pandav Nagar, where Sanjay’s extended family lived. The Hindu spoke to the brother of a property dealer, one of those questioned by the police on Monday. According to phone records, the brothers were in touch with the deceased.Meanwhile, Sanjay’s family claimed that all cases registered against him and his wife were a result of his complaint following an alleged attempt on his life.Sanjay and Jyoti are named in nine cases, all pertaining to cheating by various property dealers and customers. Sanjay had in July 2012 alleged that he was fired at by his business partners Ajay Sharma, Sunil Chopra and Vipin Sarin following a dispute over a real estate-related issue.The chronology of these cases, made available to The Hindu , confirms that all these cases were registered in 2012 and 2013 after the alleged bid on Sanjay’s life. The first case was registered in October 2012.While the police made it clear that Sanjay’s estranged business partners cannot be named as prime suspects, they added that the trio cannot be given a clean chit either.Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central) Parmaditya, however, said Sanjay remains a victim in the present case and that the cases against him, though critical, may not necessarily help establish the motive behind the murders.In another development, Sanjay’s younger sister Reena confirmed a property dispute between him and their brother Sagar. The property in question, she said, was the Pandav Nagar house in which Sagar currently lives and their father lived till his death.“My father had two houses. He died on September 1 last. Before his death, he gave one house to Sagar and declared Sanjay’s wife Jyoti as the legal heir to the house they were living in. This did not go down well with Sagar, since he wanted both the houses for himself,” she claimed.Reena added that their mother had died long ago and her elder sister-in-law had started taking care of the family, something that impressed her father. She added that the Old Rajinder Nagar house where Sanjay lived was made by him without any help from their father, who would come down to Rajinder Nagar from Pandav Nagar daily to run his cloth ironing stall.She maintained that barring Sagar, Sanjay had cordial relations with all other family members, while dismissing the allegations made against her brother by his former business partners.On the day of the murder, Reena and her husband had visited Sanjay’s house and left around 6.30 p.m. According to her, neither Sanjay nor Jyoti had happened to mention anything unusual.Police teams questioned nearly three dozen persons till late on Monday evening