http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/No-%E2%80%98shakti%E2%80%99-left-in-this-initiative/article13998483.ece

: Launched about a year ago to empower women the North Delhi Municipal Council’s all-women Shakti Cabs service has neither any taxis nor drivers.The idea was to have a fleet of taxis driven by and for women, but the project has remained on paper, having never provided any employment to the drivers trained for the initiative.On March 25 last year, then NDMC chairperson Jalaj Srivastava had announced the plan while giving the budget for 2015-2016. The NDMC’s Women Technical Institute has been giving driving training for four years now. As a pilot project, Mr. Srivastava’s plan was to provide employment to women who had completed their training by setting up a dedicated cab service for women. Due to lack of funds, it was supposed to start with 20 cars.“In order to add to the safety features and ensure comfort level for lady passengers, each cab would be provided with security guards in night shifts apart from GPS,” Mr. Srivastava had said in his speech. A year has almost passed since then, and the budget for 2016-2017 will be presented on Wednesday.The institute has trained about 50 women so far, and six of them have got commercial licences, WTI principal Komal Pathak said. Two of them have since got married and decided not to pursue driving as a vocation, while the remaining four have been forced to take up other jobs.NDMC officials, including chairperson Naresh Kumar, remained unavailable to comment. However, sources in the NDMC admitted that the project had lost steam soon after its launch.Rehana Azmi, who completed her training about two years ago, said she was eager to put her commercial licence to good use with the Shakti Cabs project.“My goal was to help women be more independent. If they felt safer with a woman driving, it would have helped in empowering them. But, unfortunately it didn’t work out,” said Ms. Azmi, who is now working at a boutique and completing her bachelor’s degree through correspondence.Ironically, it was the lack of safety that forced her to decline the driving job. A Faridabad resident, Ms. Azmi and her family were uncomfortable with her driving at night.One of the instructors at WTI said most of the women who had completed the training were interested in taking up driving jobs. “But, after they finish the course, there is no support. They don’t have their own vehicles so they start to forget the training. Some of them are excellent drivers; they even know how to drive trucks,” said the instructor.50 women were trained to drivecars as part of the all-women Shakti Cabs service project