http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/entertainment/No-country-for-liberals/article14001548.ece

Yesterday, a terrible crime was committed; horrific by even our horrific standards. But what pleases me is that the right machinery swept into place and dealt with it swiftly. The Haryana police flew into Mumbai and through stellar police work, triangulated the criminal’s location via his cell phone, arrested him and took him back to Haryana to be dealt with as the court decrees.“Who is this criminal?” I hear you ask. “A murderer, rapist, conman, child molester, thief, politician… maybe El Chapo escaped again?” Who could possibly warrant a posse of cops flying a couple of thousand miles to deliver him to righteous justice?By now you should have guessed whom I’m talking about (and if you haven’t, you either need to get out more or increase your data package to access the news).So let’s, for a brief moment, take a look at what led to all of this. Ashwin MuchranKiku Sharda, the popular comedian who plays Palak on Comedy Nights with Kapil , had mimicked Sant Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh Ji Insan, the spiritual head of Dera Sacha Sauda (no, it’s not the name of a movie), on a TV show some days ago. A certain number of people took offence and filed a complaint under Section 295A of the Indian Penal Code, which pertains to “deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs.” This essentially means anyone can take offence to pretty much anything said, no matter how innocuous, and file a criminal complaint. Now, I don’t really blame the people because we have seen this happen time and again. The real culprit here is Section 295A and a host of other laws that have no place in modern India. Recently, Mahendra Singh Dhoni had an arrest warrant issued because a magazine depicted him as Vishnu. The comedy collective All India Bakchod had charges slapped all over them for their infamous Roast. And if you remember, in 2012, Shaheen Dhada and her friend, Renu, were arrested under Section 66A for a Facebook post. Thankfully, Section 66A does not exist anymore and all charges were dropped, but the real problem still is the stifling of the freedom of expression. Comedians today are a worried bunch. They have absolutely no idea what they can joke about, which, if you come to think of it, is a pretty serious drawback, considering jokes are their bread and butter. I wouldn’t be surprised if we soon see a stand up special titled ‘One Hour of Silence – Guaranteed not to offend anybody’. This is what is known as The Chilling Effect. Sending a team of cops to arrest Kiku Sharda sets a bad precedent for an industry that’s still in its nascent stages and is held back by regressive laws.But what I really find strange is this: Sant Gurmeet Ram Rahim (we should just cut the Insan bit out) faces charges of sexual assault, murder and I kid you not, for allegedly forcing a bunch of his followers to castrate themselves to experience god (more like experiencing pain). And not a peep from anyone. All in all, a jolly fellow with possibly too much MSG in his system. His website says, “Guruji has innumerable hidden talents that become visible only when the time arises.” Humour and the ability to take a joke clearly isn’t any of them. In the meantime, I vote that we all make up our own religions so we can get offended and misuse Section 295A anytime we like. PS: My nephew wrote this.(Ashwin Mushran is a professional actor, voice over artiste comic based in Mumbai)---------India is an emerging nation -- this is what the world leaders like to say when they visit. Sure, but it is emerging as Exhibit-A of a doped out and senseless population. Because, as Karl Marx famously said, religion is the opium of the masses, sense of senseless people.Religion is the default option for our offence-taking republic. And when it comes to religion, all of us must immediately stop laughing.  That is where B. R. R. S. G. S. J Insan is different.B. R. R. S. G. S. J Insan is a funny guy. Am I the only one who finds it strange that one comedian got arrested for mimicking another funny guy yesterday? I am talking about Baba Ram Rahim ji Insan -- perhaps the only baba in the world who could give the cricketer Chaminda Vaas a run for his money when it comes to initials. Anyone who has not seen B. R. R. S. G. S. J. Insan’s song titled “Love Charger” will have lived an unfulfilled life.He has also gifted us a cult film called MSG: The Messenger. But a creative genius never rests on past laurels. The hallmark of a genius lies in the insatiable need to produce a sequel to his masterpiece. So we were blessed with MSG 2. Sanjay RajaouraLet me be honest and say it. Babaji is doing an important job. He is making us laugh, in the true sense of “LOL”. His costumes, bandanas, his blessings would make even an alien “ROFL”, let alone human beings. He is a one-man act that can rival any stand-up show. But Babaji, has followers and followers have sensibilities. The Indian sensibility is so fragile that it gets offended even if the wind is not blowing in the right direction. I must clarify, when I say Indian sensibility, I am not speaking about all Indians. Just in case somebody takes offence and the next thing you know, my mug shot is hanging in one of the thanas. Or I am called seditious or a surprise gift lands at my door – a free, one-way ticket to Pakistan.But I am a fair main. Let’s give credit where it’s due. I have a lot of respect for the Indian sensibility – it does not get hurt when a man is lynched by a mob and then the meat in his refrigerator is sent for forensic testing. Of course killing for beef and cracking a joke are poles apart. I know the difference. While the former is a religious duty, the latter is a dangerous crime.But can somebody please explain this to me? When the cow is hurt, Indian sensibilities are hurt. But then the Indian sensibility is also hurt when a bull is spared from the painful ritual of Jallikattu. Go figure.Now, I am a man of scientific temperament. I studied physics, chemistry, biology, mathematics and computer science, along with a usual, mandatory dose of religion during my student days. I rejected religion very early in life and embraced science. That is when I logged out of the brittle universe of “Indian sensibility”.Where does that leave people like me? People, who are non-religious, nurse a scientific temperament, believe in freedom of expression, and intensely enjoy Feynman even as we laugh out loud at Baba ji.I do not rush to the police station even though science is being ridiculed a thousand times every day. The law does not give people like me any recourse when scientific sensibilities are offended.On second thoughts though, maybe I should be thankful that scientific-tempered people in India don’t have their very own legal protection like Section 295 to resort to, because in India, science is also not inviolable. The fragile, holier-than-thou Indian sensibility has a Vedic capacity of infiltrating the scientific temperament as well.Eagerly waiting for MSG 3.(Sanjay Rajoura was born in New Delhi and has lived in Jaipur, Pune, Mumbai, Delhi, San Francisco and Singapore. After working in the software industry for more than ten years, Rajoura is now a humorist/stand-up artiste.)