http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/No-secret-truck-with-MIM-says-Talasani/article14018804.ece

Minister for Commercial Taxes and Cinematography Talasani Srinivas Yadav has stated that the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi’s (TRS) has no tacit understanding with All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) in the GHMC elections.Speaking at a meet-the-press organised by Telangana Working Journalists’ Federation (TWJF) and Hyderabad Union of Journalists (HUJ) here on Sunday, he said there was no such need to TRS as people have faith in the leadership of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and confidence in the welfare and development schemes being implemented by the State government.“The TRS government has been implementing many programmes which are not even included in its election manifesto and the people have already experienced the commitment of the government to do good work,” Mr. Yadav, who still remains a legislator of the Opposition TDP technically, said. Ridiculing the criticism of Opposition parties on the government’s goodwill measure of offering a pair of clothes to poor Muslims and Christians on the occasion of Ramzan and Christmas, Mr. Yadav sought to know whether it was wrong to help some have-nots celebrate their major festival with a sense of happiness. The plan to provide Rs. 5 meal was also introduced with such compassion towards those who earn their daily bread through sheer toil.Asked about TRS’ confidence to win 100 out of 150 seats in GHMC, the Minister stated that the confidence stems from gauging public mood in the recent months. Welfare schemes, including the 2BHK scheme, had taken the government closer to people, he said. On the BJP’s criticism of the housing scheme, Mr. Yadav suggested its legislators to get sanctioned at least 1,000 houses each from the Centre that had introduced the scheme with Rs.2.5 lakh per unit against Telangana’s unit cost ranging from Rs.5.5 lakh to Rs.7 lakh. Reiterating that he was the one who had been against the talk of “settler” from the beginning, Mr. Yadav said all people living in city are Telangana citizens and only those fearing poor prospects in the GHMC elections are raking it up again and again.‘Who is Lokesh?’When asked about the impact of campaigning by TDP general secretary Nara Lokesh, Mr. Yadav shot back: Who’s he? I can speak about seasoned politicians and not about political greenhorns. People have seen their impact recently in the Nizam College Grounds”. He said the Congress and TDP-BJP combine are fighting for a position only in the Opposition.