http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/No-threat-to-SAD-BJP-alliance-says-Badal/article14004181.ece

Noting that the SAD-BJP alliance was based on principle, Punjab Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal asserted it was solid like a rock and that there was no threat to it till he breathed his last.“So long as I breathe, this alliance is solid and there is no threat to it,” he said here on Saturday night. He called the alliance between two parties not merely political but one which is based on principle.He made these comments when told that tussle between some leaders of the alliance reflected poorly on it. When asked about alleged removal of G. S. Grewal as president of Punjab Medical Council by Punjab Medical Education and Research Minister Anil Joshi, Mr. Badal said he would look into the matter.When reminded of the long tussle between Mr. Joshi and Dr. Grewal, Mr. Badal said he would look into it and added tussles don’t solve matters.Dr Grewal is brother of Mahesh Inder Singh Grewal, Adviser to the Chief Minister.On rescheduling of the Indo-Pak Foreign Secretary level talks in the wake of the Pathankot Airbase terrorist attack, Mr. Badal said that he saw nothing wrong in bilateral talks between the two countries provided the concerned side talked with clear heart and honesty.“After all, vexed matters get solved across the table through talks,” he said.Rejecting the claim that AAP’s popularity graph was rising in Punjab, Mr. Badal said it was only curiosity for the new outfit as there used to be for ‘navi bahu’ (new bride). “This curiosity will wear out soon and AAP’s bubble will burst as the election results will show,” he said.Meanwhile, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Sunday announced the names of over 100 leaders who will form the party’s working committee as well as of permanent special invitees and those part of its political advisory committee.The working committee, announced by SAD president and Deputy Chief Minister Sukhbir Singh Badal, consists of old-time trusted Taksali Akali leaders as well as young leaders of the party, SAD’s secretary and spokesman Daljit Singh Cheema said.The working committee, special invitees and advisory committee together comprises over 170 members, including party MLAS, former MLAS, former MPs, the Punjab Education Minister said, adding every section of society has been given due representation.-PTI