http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/letters/No-jallikattu-this-Pongal/article13997475.ece

One of the reasons for justifying jallikattu is that it is a traditional game of valour (“No jallikattu in Tamil Nadu this year”, Jan. 13). I have seen jallikattu in more than one location and I’ve also seen clips of it on television. In this sport, at least two people attack the bull from its sides, and one pulls the animal’s tail. Not once have I seen anyone take the bull by its horns. Where is the valour in this? This is nothing but bullying and torture. I would consider it valour if one man took the bull by its horns and tamed it in a closed arena where neither the bull nor the “hero” can escape. Supposing three or four bulls took on one man at a time, how valorous do you think he would be? I can only visualise the “valorous” bull-tamer taking to his heels.S. Pushpavanam , TiruchirappalliWhat is this madness to revive jallikattu? The argument advanced is that it is an expression of Tamil tradition and culture and that the Tamil people display their valour in this game. Aren’t there many other humane ways of achieving the same objective? The people of Tamil Nadu risked their own lives to rescue people during the floods. Was that not valour?And harping on tradition and culture bears no scrutiny. Sati was practised for centuries; do we want to revive it now in the name of tradition? Manu sanctioned oppression of women and castes; is that in tune with the modern concepts of justice and equality?The Supreme Court would do well to make this ban on jallikattu permanent and spare these poor animals such cruelty. There should be no room for politicking here. Let Tamil society come up with a new game that will showcase valour without showcasing cruelty.Chris Theodore, ChennaiLudicrous justifications have been posed by the protagonists of jallikattu (“Centre defends new notification”, Jan. 13). Attorney-General Mukul Rohatgi is reported to have said, “Certain breeds are meant to do certain things. If they don’t, they will die.” Animals have feelings and rights. They cannot be bullied, teased or provoked into doing unnatural things. Sport involves consent and fair play. Letting loose starving lions on prisoners in the Colosseum was also a great Roman sport.A.N. Lakshmanan, BengaluruJallikattu has been dubbed a cruel sport but what about all the other forms of cruelty to animals? In India, in some places, bullocks are castrated and their horns are mutilated using hot iron. On the farm or while dragging transport vehicles, they are continuously whipped. Horses that drag tongas are also whipped. Monkeys are made to perform on the streets. Elephants are ill-treated by mahouts. Animals are tortured while being transported to slaughterhouses. Will the Animal Welfare Board of India also take action against all this?M. Subrahmanyan,ChennaiKilling animals for food, leather products, and hurting them for transport are all daily occurrences in India. But hurting animals for a traditional sport in Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra is suddenly cruel, according to animal rights activists and others.Lakshmanan L.N.L.,ChennaiThe problem is not with the sport but in the way in which it is being played. People tie blades to the legs of cocks before they are made to fight, in Andhra Pradesh. Similarly, many birds die in Gujarat during the kite festival due to the use of manja (lethal thread made of glass powder). So, the court should not ban the sport but allow it to play out in a more humane manner.Kshirasagara Balaji Rao,HyderabadIt is strange that those sitting in cocooned enclosures — armchair activists — pass strange judgments or comments without any real understanding of the dynamics of a society. Jallikattu is an age-old sport and there are other sports involving animals too. Will the learned judges have a similar approach to those practices too? Slaughtering of animals for food is also cruelty. Anyone who visits a slaughterhouse would give up meat-eating immediately.S. Srinivasan,BengaluruThe editorial, “A political misadventure” (Jan.13), which sees the issue both from a legal and a political angle, is excellent. It is clear that political parties in Tamil Nadu are generating this controversy to gain political mileage before the Assembly elections. This is very unfortunate. In a constitutional democracy, it is the duty of the apex court to exercise its independence to set right such controversies through pronouncements, and not succumb to the pressures of particular parties or sections of people. If this happens, then the judiciary would be redundant.The question now is, should there be a legislative overreach on this issue through promulgation of an ordinance which will nullify the existing judicial pronouncements on the subject?T. Ramaswamy,Chennai