http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/sport/No-hurdles-barred-for-Moses/article14003146.ece

Edwin Moses was nonpareil in the one-lap hurdles; he ran 122 races without losing for nine years, nine months and nine days from the mid-1970s to the 1980s and broke the world record four times. He won Olympic gold medals at Montreal ’76 and Los Angeles ’84, won World Championship gold medals at Helsinki ’83 and Rome ’87 and three World Cup gold medals at Dusseldorf ’77, Montreal ’79 and Rome ’81. Currently, he is the chairman of the United States Anti-Doping Agency and chairman of World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) education programme.The State-sponsored doping in the All-Russia Athletics Federation and its suspension thereafter by the IAAF and Dick Pound’s WADA report that the IAAF was embedded in corruption has rocked the athletics world.The 60-year-old former champion hurdler was reticent when asked to comment upon the unsavoury goings on in the world of athletics. But when The Hindu in the course of an interview on Friday asked him ‘What’s the way forward for IAAF and its president Sebastian Coe in the present circumstances’, he said: “Obviously it’s a tough situation to be in. I have been a leader of many organisations and I understand that leadership starts at the top. When there is trouble, the responsibility ends at the top. So when you become a leader of an organisation, you accept that. I am always concerned and my biggest concern is the damage that it does to the athletes in the sport and what the peripheral damage can be if they lose confidence in your organisation. And that’s why the rationale for clean sports and drug testing; if that’s the way they look at the top, why should we look at it any differently?”Excerpts:Jesse Owens, ‘Flying Finn’ Lasse Viren, Bob Beamon, Emil Zatopek, Frank Shorter and yourself have left terrific memories, left a legacy.…. can it ever be damaged by circumstances as it is today?I don’t want to bash track and field. When I was running, track & field was great, and I appreciate being able to run when track & field moved into the marketing era. I had a lot of colleagues, a dozen or 15 iconic names from people in East Germany to Russia and everyone around the world, whom I knew on a first name basis, because they were the true champions. I miss that part of track & field.You must be very proud of what you have done for the sport of athletics; you were the face of a great sport in the 70s and 80s?There have been a lot of athletes, iconic athletes that people know like Marion Jones, Michael Johnson, Usain Bolt; they are great athletes, but no one has even come close to dominating it for a sustained period of time. So, it’s very special for me.(Moses during the Men's 400 metres hurdles at the Canon Athletics Championships on 29th August 1984 at the Oberwerth Stadium in Koblenz, Germany. Photo: Getty)The men’s 400m hurdles has been dominated by the USA at the Olympics; 18 golds, 12 silvers and 10 bronzes…It’s changed over the years. We had a period of time when Sanchez (Felix) won two Olympic gold medals (2004 & 2012). We had other great athletes from all over the world from time to time. Three Americans have won two Olympic medals in the event. I could have definitely won three and if we had gone to Moscow (1980), four. So I feel like I kind of got short changed. I should have had more than two gold medals (1976 & 1984). You have Americans Angelo Taylor, Glenn Davis and myself, who have won two Olympic gold medals, and also Sanchez (Dominican Republic).But the 46.78s by Kevin Young at Barcelona in 1992 has not gone down for 23 years now. What makes the 400m hurdles so unique?The hurdles are moving at you just as fast as you are moving at them. It’s different from every other track event, because when you are running, you feel like the world is coming at you. Everything was moving at you; that’s the way I thought. There are lot of different elements. I wished I had competition, when I was running absolutely at my best between 1980 and 1983. I was running 47.13, 47.14, 47.17, 47.02. I was 15 yards ahead and I ran those times all by myself. I knew, and I said it back in 1976-77 to Sports Illustrated, I could run 46 flat under the right conditions and if I had competition. I was far ahead of my time, but I never had the opportunity to run under 47 seconds.Does it happen to top class sportspersons, when running all alone in the last part of the home stretch they prefer to amble across the finishing line?In the 400m hurdles, you have to stay focused the whole race. The last hurdle is the most dangerous one because when you get to the end of the hurdles, you tend to lose your balance, coordination, strength...so it’s a dangerous race until the end. If one looks at the 1984 (Los Angeles) race, when I went over the 10th hurdle, I was extra careful because all it takes is a mental lapse to hit the hurdles. So, you have to make adjustments. In the 100m, once you start, there’s no turning back; you have to be 100 per cent and there is no such thing as 98 and 99 per cent, maybe at the end of the race, there may be four or five steps when you are not accelerating any more. You cannot do that in my race, the 400m hurdles.An amazing run of 122 unconquered races; was there a fear of losing at any time during this long stretch of nine years, nine months and nine days?I never thought about races and how I was going to perform. I had different elements in training which I looked at as an art form; so for nine months of the year, I was practising that art form. I never thought what I was going to do when I ran against Harald Schmid and Danny Harris; I was always prepared. When the race started, I had already gone to my mind of different possibilities.Were you hurt after losing (the gold) at Seoul in 1988?No, no, no. I think we ran three days in a row back then. Now, they get a day of rest. I was always pressing for an extra day between the semifinal and final back then, but the federation was not flexible. So, I never really got a chance to prepare; all I had was 48 hours for the final. That’s what it was. I was always at a disadvantage; I never ran my best races in the Olympics.Most Western nations boycotted 1980 at Moscow. Did Seb Coe and Steve Ovett do the right thing by going to Moscow?If the Americans had the choice, a lot of athletes would have gone. It’s just that we did not have a choice. We were in the middle of a Cold War, with Russia. There was a lot going on, political at that time…very, very political.Are 400m hurdlers becoming less ambitious to go after Kevin Young’s record?It’s hard to do. It takes years to be able to even get into the 47s. Last year, we did not see a lot of hurdlers doing even 47s. It’s a difficult event. I think the Kevin Young record is an aberration. It will happen one time.What is success and failure in sport, especially in track & field?Track & field is a sport where most people lose over the course of their careers. People lose more than they win. When you start at the bottom, the better you get planning. And when you get to a different level and in better competitions, you start losing again. Then, you have to improve again and climb up the ladder into a higher level of competition and probably start losing again. So at the end of the day, people lose more races than they win. It’s always an up and down barrel. People like Michael Johnson are the exceptions. But before he started winning, he used to lose all the time. I was an exception when I ran my event for the first time in 1976; I was second, then I fell twice. I think I lost four races that year and did not lose again till 1977 and then I did not lose again till 1987. I think I lost six times in my whole time of running. I lost six times from 1976 to 1988. Everything I did was exceptional, no one does that. But I did not know if I was going to do all this. I never looked at a race like a competition, just an art form and like a ballet dancer; practice and prepare everyday all the time. And when the curtain opens you are ready. I never looked at it as a sporting point of view as most people would expect.When asked at a press conference about Usain Bolt dominating the scene, you said people should lose and come back to win? But all this happened because Justin Gatlin, Asafa Powell and Tyson Gay all tested positive, and Yohan Blake was not heard of much in 2015 because of injury?It’s more to do with track and field. It’s not only about the World Championships and Olympic Games, because there will always be another World champion and an Olympic champion. They are looking at the next guy, when you retire after one or two Olympics. When I talk to people who have watched my career in the European meets, the first thing they mention is: “I saw you run time and time again against Schmid.” They loved seeing those races because it was dramatic and it was real. People knew that when the race started, the outcome can go either way, although I was the favourite. I ran like it was an Olympic Games every time. I ran against Schmid probably a minimum of 20 times, at three World Cups, two World Championships and all the other races, including the Olympics. People remember the drama of me running against Schmid or Harris or any of the other competitors. The other concept of winning an Olympic medal is nebulous. If you are physically not there, you can watch it on TV. So, it was a golden era when I was running. It was like Willie Banks (sports and marketing promoter) getting the people excited during a trip to Japan. Even people like Evelyn Ashford and the Polish high jumper Jacek Wszoła are remembered for competitions they had with others. That’s what is lacking (these days).You said Kevin Young’s 46.78 was an aberration. Would you say Bolt’s 100m (9.58 in Berlin 2009) and 200m (19.19 also in Berlin) could turn out to be an aberration?All records are made to be broken. So, we will see, we will see. There are women’s records that have been around for many years; they are the longest ones now. Tommy Smith’s record (200m record stood for 11 years), Bob Beamon’s record (long jump record stood for 22 years), and my record (16 years) was beginning to get long. People still talk about Beamon. Even in my event, people ask me, ‘Do you still have the record’, and I say ‘no’.The name Bob Beamon...what does it mean to you?I know Bob personally; I talk to him on phone, also with John Carlos. Tommie Smith is a really good friend of mind. These guys are like me. They look at track & field from a purist’s point of view. We like competitions because back in those days, they ran on Friday and Saturday nights in different cities.There have been well over 1000 doping cases dealt with so far officially. There is the whereabouts clause and out-of-competition testing. Have they proved to be a deterrent?It’s absolutely a deterrent. It’s necessary. What’s happening now is that there’s a lot of research to find out why athletes are being enticed to use unusual methods, and the psychology behind the people around the athletes. So, in most cases you will find that it’s not the athlete who is culpable. There are lots of people behind the scenes. We want to make great efforts to go after those people.Would you say Ben Johnson and Marion Jones, who had the potential to do big things for athletics, have been the worst instances to have rocked world athletics?I don’t want to talk about everybody in doping. Those are all individual cases.What should India do to improve in athletics?There are lot of places in the world that need to develop a culture for athletics. They need to find a coach to identify the athletes they want to train, have the facilities and the financial backing of the federation to enable them to undergo physical therapy. There has to be good anti-doping programmes, which sometimes take years to come up. There might be five people in the country to do a good job, but they have to be encouraged.Which other sport you follow in the USA?I follow the NBA at the end of the season. I like the tournament action when the playoffs and conferences begin.Which gold medal would you value the most; Olympics or World Championship?Olympics. No question about that.Your thoughts on Rio Olympics?It’s always interesting. I have been to so many Olympic Games. I don’t know whether I am going to be there (Rio) or not. When I used to be the Athletes Commission member, I used to be there at the Olympics. You miss so much when you cannot watch it on television. I like to really watch the games on television.