http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/No-fast-or-long-running-this-week/article13990416.ece

This is it, my running comrades! The Mumbai Marathon is eight days away. This week is only to keep your joints moving, not to make up for all the training runs you have missed. No more of fast or long running before the D-day; that will only cause an injury.In my sports medicine practice, I see a lot of hassled runners coming to me in the last week before a marathon, begging me to ‘fix’ them so they can run. It's best to avoid circumstances which can cause an injury.Being sensible prevents 90 per cent of injuries amongst runners. If you still get hurt, please take a call keeping your long term goals in mind. In running, you have picked up a great habit.The plan should be able to run for as long as you are around on planet earth rather than only doing one race and never again.TRAINING PROGRAMME - WEEK 6Sunday: Today isn’t the day for the longest run. Make it a mock run. Practice your aid-station breaks as suggested. Stay on your feet for 90 minutes to a maximum of two hours. No more.Monday: Rest from running. Do strength training and running drills.Tuesday: 1 km interval-runs at projected race pace. Take a minute’s break, then repeat five times. Keep the same pace throughout.Wednesday: Same as Monday.Thursday: Same as Tuesday but distance for each interval is 2 km. Repeat 6 times.Friday: Same as Wednesday.Saturday: 30-40 minutes’ easy run with walk-breaks every 10 minutes. Breakfast and lunch will be important. Stay active and keep munching on healthy foods. Dinner shouldn’t be heavy and should be had at least two hours before you sleep.The last of the six-part series will help you take the start line next Sunday and wear a smile after completing the Mumbai MarathonRace day preparationsPack your bags on Saturday evening itself to avoid early morning rush. Two sets of bags need to be prepared: one for the race and the other post-race.Bag 1# Enter personal details and medical conditions, if any, on the back of the race number zvbib. Don’t cut or alter the bib in any way as that might disqualify you.# Socks and shoes should be kept out along with the rest of your gear. If you need cap and sun-glasses, put them out too.# Food and hydration: Energy gels/ bars and 2-3 200 ml water bottles.Bag 2# Change of clothes for after-run, including underwear, socks, t-shirt, shorts/ track pants, towel and sandals.Saturday night: You need to plan backwards to get to the stadium at 6 am the next morning. You should sleep at least 7-8 hours. Even if you can’t sleep, lie for that time at least.Sunday morning# Get up early enough to factor in all the delays possible in getting to the start line. Cater for 30 minutes of queues to get in.# Toilets and Hydration: Don’t drink too much water before running; have it in sips. Expect long queues for toilets, so don’t wait for the last minute.The writer is a sports medicine doctor and student of running. He trains people who have never run before as well as the best ultra runners in the world to run 333 kms in Ladakh and other inhuman conditions.Follow him @drrajatchauhan on Twitter