http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/No-fitness-certificates-for-oversized-vehicles/article13998459.ece

After the one-year time limit to transporters to adhere to norms on size of their vehicles transporting two-wheelers and four-wheelers ended this past week, the Haryana government has stopped issuing fitness certificates to oversized vehicles, affecting a large number of truckers.“The Haryana government’s move to not to issue fitness certificates to oversized trucks will affect 35,000-40,000 vehicles. We are prepared for it and have purchased new trucks adhering to the size norms,” said Automobile Carrier Welfare Association (ACWA) general-secretary Daman Dewan.In mid-December 2014, the Haryana government had stopped renewing fitness certificates for trucks that did not adhere to dimension norms. The transporters had threatened to go an indefinite strike, seeking time to adhere to the norms. The government relented and gave then a one-year exemption after the truckers met Haryana Chief Minister on January 7 last.Mr. Dewan, however, said the truckers were facing difficulty in plying their vehicles due to lack of uniformity of law on the issue.“Our trucks adhere to norms in Haryana, but are being challaned in Maharashtra for being oversized. Even the BJP-ruled States have different rules on dimensions of trucks, making it difficult for us to comply with the law,” said Mr. Dewan.He said an all-India level meeting of the two-wheeler carriers’ association was scheduled for Saturday, following which the truckers might decide to shift their business out of Haryana.“We are contemplating shifting our transport business out of Haryana to Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. It will cause heavy revenue loss to the State exchequer,” said Mr. Dewan.Contradicting claims of truckers that different States have different laws, S.P. Singh, Senior Fellow, Indian Foundation of Transport Research and Training (IFTRT), told The Hindu that the law on the size of trucks was uniform across the country and the truckers were misleading on the issue.