http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Thiruvananthapuram/No-facilities-no-licence-for-schools-hereafter/article13983883.ece

Schools that do not have adequate toilets and other infrastructure facilities would not be allowed to function from next academic year, Education Minister P. K. Abdu Rabb said here on Tuesday. Local bodies have been issued strict instructions not to renew licences to such schools.Mr. Rabb was participating in a meet-the-press programme organised by the Thiruvananthapuram Press Club. Mr. Rabb handed over to the club two video cameras and allied equipment which he himself purchased for the students of the journalism course.The Director of Public Instruction has been asked to conduct a detailed study on the finding of the pay commission that there were 39,000 excess schoolteachers in the State.It may be difficult for Kerala to adhere to the norms for toilets as per the Right to Education Act. Still, schools have been asked to comply, as much as possible, with the directives. It is estimated that 90 per cent of the schools have adequate infrastructure facilities, including toilets and drinking water.The finding of the pay commission about excess teachers is shocking. The DPI has been asked to take each school separately and study this. Moreover it is doubtful whether a school can successfully inflate the number of students it has. Anyhow, this issue would be studied, he said. Mr. Rabb said a list of uneconomic schools has been prepared. Of these, those that can be merged would be merged and the rest should ideally be closed down.The court verdict regarding the teachers’ package has produced mixed results. The Principal Secretary, General Education, has been asked to study all aspects of the verdict and submit a report. Steps have been taken to grant aided status to schools where there are at least 100 differently abled children. A list of schools where there are 50 such children is being prepared. In reply to a question, Mr. Rabb said the department has drawn up a list of centres to which appeals may be preferred about the school youth festival. It has also been decided to revise comprehensively the festival manual.This would come into effect next year, he added.Local bodies have been instruced not to renew licences of schools without facilities.