http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/No-quota-except-for-EWS-in-nursery-admissions/article13984906.ece

erming it the “biggest scandal” in the education sector, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday asked schools to scrap “management quota” and all other quotas except EWS for nursery admission.He also ordered schools to scrap “discriminatory and arbitrary” criterion for nursery admission. The move has been approved by the Cabinet as well.The move will benefit parents struggling with the admissions of their wards and comes in the wake of schools reserving a large number of seats under management, sibling or other quotas.In some schools, the quotas stretched upto 40 percent, other than EWS, leaving almost no room for the general category.Announcing the decision Mr. Kejrwal said: “What is management quota? Under it, you get admission if someone is recommended by a Chief Minister, education minister, judge, police commissioner, SHOs or by an income tax official. Either it is recommendations or seats are sold.”“Management quota is the biggest scandal in the country which the Delhi government is scrapping. 75 per cent admissions in the private schools will be under open category. Other than EWS, there will be no other quota,” he added.He also warned schools of stringent action in case of violations, and said the government will use all options against erring institutions, including takeover.“If the schools do not budge, they can be de-recognised or government can take them over. The mafia had captured the education system and made it a business. The government will not tolerate this,” Mr. Kejriwal said coming down heavily on private schools.In a similar move, the government has also asked schools to scrap “arbitrary and discriminatory” criterion for nursery admission. The development comes a day after The Hindu reported about some schools giving points to students on the basis of their parent’s profession.The government has given a list of 62 such criterion to the schools and asked them to remove it from the list. The government has asked schools to come up with “fair” and “non-discriminatory” criteria.“The schools are directed to remove all the criterion that are not just, clear, well defined and discriminatory,” a circular by the Directorate of Education read.Schools had come up with criteria giving points to students whose parents do not smoke or drink or consume non-vegetarian food or are government employees.The High Court, in an order, had asked the government not to micro-manage the admission process following which the Education Department allowed the schools to frame their own criteria. The government however found certain criteria were “extremely shocking” and in violation of Article 14 of the Constitution relating to equality before law.If the schools do not budge, they can be de-recognised or govt. can take over them. The mafia had captured the education system and made it a business.Arvind Kejriwal,Delhi Chief Minister