http://www.thehindu.com/features/magazine/No-ceilings-for-glass/article13977083.ece

When you think glass, images that come to mind are usually of tableware, miniature toys and colourful bangles. But in the hands of the imaginative Dubai-based glass sculptor, Anjali Srinivasan, glass transforms miraculously into a “pink, peach” dress complete with zipper and all, which picks up ambient hues and twinkles it back. The dress made waves at Dubai Design Week 2015.  Sudha UmashankerThinking out of the box, charting unexplored territory, and pushing the boundaries are clearly a part of Srinivasan’s DNA, as she plays around with the fragile and ephemeral medium. She talks of how she got interested in glass as a student of accessories design at NIFT in Delhi. Her internship was at a glass tableware company. “I visited their factory in Ferozabad and loved how complex and mind-confounding glass is when it is molten. Working with glass, especially molten glass, is hugely challenging and involves a very long and steep learning curve. One has to train the mind, emotions and body to work in sync and harmoniously with a hot liquid material.” This is easier said than done and Srinivasan had to grapple with various snags. “My earliest challenge was: how does one design with liquid? And at what point am I going to pop a bubble into a blob of molten glass? Where is my unique voice placed in the long and well-established tradition of glass-making?... and so on”. She describes the process of glass blowing, where she gathers a blob of molten glass at 1,200 Celsius from a furnace, after which the blob is wrapped around a hollow steel pipe into which air is blown and the blob of glass gets a bubble inside it.Her overarching quest as she goes about creating pieces that defy imagination is to “generate auto-poetic sculptures and going to great lengths to set up the parameters for the glass to behave in but allowing the glass to form itself — kind of like a child for whom you choose the environment she grows in but allow the child to become her own person.”Srinivasan, who studied at the Rhode Island School of Design and the School of Art and Design, New York, has held exhibitions at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York City, Research Gallery University of Sydney, Australia, the National Museum Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, and the Toledo Museum of Art, among other places.Given the fragile and delicate nature of her installations, I wonder how difficult it is for her to shift the pieces for exhibitions or other uses. “That depends on the work actually. A part of my experimental practice is centred around interactive, performative and ephemeral works; they are situation or site specific. The other part of creative practice results in permanent objects that are shipped for exhibitions or housed by collectors.”But at the end of it all, viewers are almost always left wondering if what they see is really glass.Sudha Umashanker is a freelance journalist, social activist and storyteller.