http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Kochi/Nod-for-modern-car-parking-facility-likely-next-week/article13975845.ece

The proposed automated multi-level car parking and commercial complex at Kacheripadi is expected to get the final nod next week.The project, which was showcased in the Partner Kerala Mission project of the Kerala government, is to create a car parking facility, which can accommodate 350 vehicles at a time. The facility is expected to support the upcoming Kochi metro rail project too. The commuters of the metro can board the train after leaving their vehicles at the parking facility.The project document envisions modern parking facility with “token/ smart card/ RFID card systems or upgraded system” for hassle-free parking and retrieval of vehicles.KITCO, the project consultant, has shortlisted three firms-a Mumbai-based group, a Kozhikode- based one and a realtor from Kochi-after evaluating their Request For Qualification. This would be followed by Request For Proposal. The project would be awarded to the group, which makes the best financial offer, KITCO sources said.As this is the first such model of development tried in the State, a formal clearance from the State Cabinet is required. Once the formalities are completed, the project would be launched on February 15, officials said.The project will be implemented on a Design-Build-Finance-Operate-Transfer basis for a specified concession period on a revenue sharing cum annual concession fee model. While setting up the car parking facility, the successful bidder can go in for commercial utilisation of the project land. User fee can be collected from the vehicles for using the facility.The successful bidder would also have the “right to design and develop appropriately, the additional space for commercial activities on the premises, without compromising the service level requirements.” He can also choose the type of facility to be created for car parking, according to the project documents.The project is proposed at the 58 cent holding owned by the Kochi Corporation at Kacheripadi. Though the development rights would be given to the successful bidder, the ownership of the land will be retained with the local body.On completion of the agreement period, the land along with the project facilities, including all infrastructures, should be transferred back to the Kochi Corporation.The maintenance and servicing of the system, the operation of information systems and signage for the parking facility, collection of parking fee from the parking lots and other parking zones and the collection of rentals from shops/kiosks, advertisement spaces and areas given for other commercial activities will also be the responsibility of the successful bidder, according to the project document.