http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/Non-clinical-PG-courses-have-few-takers-in-Odisha-medical-colleges/article13981701.ece

Young doctors are showing least interest towards non-clinical PG courses being offered at the government-managed MKCG medical college and hospital in Berhampur, Odisha.Most of the seats are still vacant at this medical college that offers 17 PG courses.During recent years, there has been decline in interest of students towards five non-clinical PG courses. During the session 2015-16, no student took admission into anatomy PG course, as a result all the five seats are vacant. All the three seats of Forensic Medicine and Toxicology (FMT) also remained vacant due to lack of admissions. Out of five seats of physiology PG department, only one seat was filled up and the rest remain vacant. One seat remains vacant out of four seats of biochemistry PG course. In pharmacology PG department, four students took admission although it has seven seats.According to sources, during past three years only one student has taken admission in anatomy PG course. But the anatomy department has one professor, four associate professors, one assistant professor and three tutors. Teachers of this medical college like Radhamadhav Mishra of community medicine department say this lack of interest towards nonclinical courses is a nation-wide trend. According to him, young doctors do not find these nonclinical courses very lucrative.A few years back, there was some demand for these nonclinical PG courses because of new medical colleges being opened in different States in which passing out students were getting appointed. But at present MBBS pass outs prefer to be active physicians.Dearth of PG degree holders in these nonclinical streams has also started to show up in Odisha. In MKCG medical college, all the three tutors of anatomy department are MBBS degree holders as no PG degree holder in anatomy could be found. Experts feel if this trend continues, then in next few years it would be hard to get trained teachers for these essential faculties.Teachers feel that the government has not provided proper incentives to attract students to these courses. In the past teachers of nonclinical courses were getting 25 per cent of their salary as added incentive, which has been stopped. They wanted the incentive to be back to attract students.These courses are: Anatomy, Forensic Medicine and Toxicology, Physiology, Biochemistry and Pharmacology