http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/letters/North-Korea%E2%80%99s-claim/article13986934.ece

While nuclear armament stockpiling and proliferation in general are a matter of concern for the world, there is no particular justification for those in the nuclear club to sit in judgment and condemn North Korea for upgrading its own deterrence capability (“North Korea claims to have tested hydrogen bomb” and “India joins in global outrage”, both Jan.7). What’s sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander. India of course is concerned that the North Korean capability may be acquired by Pakistan, which is a real threat.A.N. Lakshmanan,BengaluruThe claim has come as a rude shock to the world. The “defiant bid” by North Korea to show off its nuclear prowess is a dangerous feat and no peace-loving country can treat this as a “scientific development”.P.U. Krishnan,UdhagamandalamNuclear bomb technology poses a real danger to all of us especially if it falls into the wrong hands. It is shameful that North Korea now claims to possess hydrogen bomb-building capabilities given that it has starved its citizens of even the most basic necessities. It must realise that with this act, it has set itself up on the path to self-destruction.Kshirasagara Balaji Rao,HyderabadThe report makes for chilling reading. What is the guarantee that North Korea will not let this technology fall into the wrong hands? The excuse of “self-defence” is unacceptable even if there is a spurt in the growth of terrorism. The UN must act firmly against North Korea.Rony George,BengaluruThe report reminded me of the days of the Cold War when there was virtual competition between the two superpowers. It was in response to the nuclear development programme of the U.S. that the USSR carried out underground testing of a hydrogen bomb. There was even talk of the manufacture of the more lethal cobalt bomb, either by the Pentagon or by the Kremlin.Arun Malankar,MumbaiWhatever the weapons used, war and its outcome is most often a futile exercise. With its shock announcement, Pyongyang has cocked a snook at the world. This development will only escalate tensions in a fragile region besides setting off an arms race.T.K. Nandanan,Kochi