http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Mangalore/North-Karnataka-districts-to-get-hygiene-sea-food-from-Mangaluru-Udupi/article13980778.ece

In order to expand market for sea food from Mangaluru and Udupi the State government has proposed to open hygiene retail outlet-cum-restaurants in North Karnataka states during 2016-17, according to N. S. Channappa Gowda, Secretary, State Department of Animal Husbandry and Fisheries.Speaking to media on the sidelines of a workshop on the ‘use of space technology in fisheries’ here on Monday he said that the government through Karnataka Fisheries Development Corporation (KFDC) has opened the retail outlet-cum-canteens in district headquarters in central and southern Karnataka districts. But north Karnataka districts have not been covered. Those outlet-cum-canteens would serve hygiene sea food.He said that if it was not possible to open restuarants along with the outlets due to space constraints only outlets to sell fish and prawns would be opened. But maximum efforts would be made to have both together.Presently the KFDC has opened 17 outlets in central and southern Karnataka districts. Once all districts are covered people in all districts could get hygiene sea food and fishermen in coastal belt could increase their income.V K Shetty, Managing Director, KFDC said that the corporation would open 10 more hygine fish markets in the State this and next year. Each of them would cost between Rs. 10 lakh and Rs. 15 lakh and in each such market about 15 fish sellers could sell fish. They would be opened in Bidar, Raichur, Kalaburgi, Dharwad, Hubballi, Bellari, Belavai and Gadag. Now there are 20 such fish markets in other parts of the State. The KFDC after building has handed them over to respective local bodies for their maintenance.In addition, vast fish markets to cater to 50 sellers would be built at Tekkatte (Udupi district), Davanagere and Virajpet. The KFDC could spend upto Rs. one crore for it.Funds from Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY) and National Fisheries Development Board (NFDB) would be availed for building these facilities.