http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Not-just-an-unusual-name/article14001644.ece

Earlier drawing attention of the people thanks to her unusual and unique name, Aishwarya Sushmita will now be instantly recognised in a crowd having won the latest edition of the reality show “Kingfisher Supermodels 3” on NDTV Good Times.Confessing that modelling happened to her all of a sudden, Aishwarya Sushmita has many other facets of her personality to boast about. An avid singer and a belly dancer, she has been a national level badminton player.The 20-episode reality show saw 10 girls competing for becoming the next calendar girl were judged by actor Neha Dhupia, Mohan Neelakantan, noted fashion editor and eminent fashion photographer Atul Kasbekar.In a conversation the winner of the show talked about her journey in the show, the interesting story behind her name and her experiences in the fashion industry.Edited excerpts:How did you get into the world of modelling?During my graduation in Delhi I went for Femina Miss India Campus Princess auditions where I made it to the top six finalists. It made me realise that I could try my hand in modelling, Also, I feel lucky that my family supported and encouraged me a lot to pursue a career in the field.Describe your journey in the “Kingfisher Supermodels 3”.Well, one day my agent called me up for the audition for the show. So, I went for it and got selected. I felt happy and excited. The journey throughout the show was amazing. In fact with every task and challenge, I felt getting better and refined as a model and learned a lot throughout. Initially, I never thought of winning the show but when I won the pageant, it felt fantastic and motivated me a lot to go further.In modelling fitness is of prime importance. How do you achieve that?I always try to maintain a balance between my diet and workouts. I workout in varied ways. Sometimes I do yoga, sometimes I hit the gym and sometimes I run a lot. But when I got selected for Supermodels, my body became my first priority because Kingfisher is all about swimwear and one needs to have that perfect body for the same. So I started attending the gym regularly sometimes twice a day as I needed to have minimal amount of body fat levels for the show. As for my fitness regime, I always start my day with green tea. I drink a lot of water as it is really good for the skin. I eat a balanced and healthy diet like boiled eggs and chicken and avoid junk foods to keep the extra calories away.Tell us the story behind your nameI was born in 1994 and that was the year Aishwarya Rai Bachchan was crowned Miss World and Sushmita Sen was crowned Miss Universe. My parents liked both of them a lot and that inspired them to choose this name for me.Do you plan to act in films?Well, right now I am just focusing on my modelling career. I believe that one should go with the flow and explore what comes your way in life. Yes, if I get a chance, I would like to love to explore different fields of entertainment.