http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/music/Not-a-perfect-weave/article14012121.ece

Flute maestro N. Ramani’s grandson Athul Kumar has embarked on an ambitious project — to present fusion music accompanied by dance. The presentation focused on Ashta Nayikas.With his electric flute, Athul appeared on stage with the support of an impressive orchestra comprising Karaikal Venkatasubramanian (violin), Nagai Narayanan (mridangam), C.H. Eshwar Rao (sitar), N. Sundar (tabla), Krishna Kumar (rhythm pads) and Dileep (keyboards).The opening scene began with Varnarupini and each nayika’s portrayal was in different ragas such as Hamirkalyani, Nattai, Rukmambari, Poornashadjam, Chandrajyoti, Kamalamanohari, Keeravani and Vasanthi in the order of presentation, signing off with Madhyamavati.The eight nayikas, Vasakasajja, Swadeenapathika, Proshitapatika, Abisarika, Vipralabdha, Kanditha, Virahotkanditha and Kalahantharika were presented with a heroine and her four sakhis. In each episode, Athul chose to present the characteristics of the eight nayikas according to the grades of their behaviour from uthama to athama as per the classification in Bharata’s Natya Shastra.The dancers were led by Archana Kanthan. Young dancers Kalpana, Janani, Amrutha and Deepthi added colour to the presentation with their performance. Nattuvangam and jathis were by Subhashree.For the small stage, the arrangement or formation of five dancers looked cluttered. Group choreography is challenging and Archana as the main dancer did not quite do full justice to her role. The conceptualisation was brilliant but the execution lacked aesthetics.Each episode also needed some pruning so that the movements and footwork did not appear repetitive. Bringing together orchestral music and Bharatanatyam seemed to be a good idea but required enormous cohesion and creativity.Coming to the orchestra, should all the instrumentalists play at the same time? Fusion music may require a variety of instruments, but that should not spoil the harmony. If only the tabla had accompanied sitar or mridangam the violin, the music could have been better heard and enjoyed. Being the maiden attempt, the team should do more home work.