http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Not-the-glamour-route/article14014066.ece

Bhumi Pednekar, who debuted in Yash Raj Film’s Dum Laga Ke Haisha, is not the one to rest on her past laurels. She is now all set to spring a surprise on the audiencein her next movie Manmarziyan.At ease before the camera, with a natural spunk giving her an edge over her co-actors, Bhumi in her earlier avatar was a casting professional. But her passion and fondness for acting overcame her professional work. The actor, who took home Filmfare Best Debutante Award recently, opened up about her short yet eventful innings in the film industry.For your next movie,Manmarziyan,we see a completely transformed Bhumi. How did this happen?My weight loss was always on the cards because I had gained weight for a certain character in Dum Laga Ke Haisha. It took me about a year to gain weight and the same amount of time to lose it. It was a year of being disciplined and eating healthy food. It took a lot of hard work. However, I did not deprive myself of anything. It was just a great mix of exercise and diet. It is an amazing lifestyle change and I love it. Nothing is a shortcut. You have to be patient and work hard to achieve your goal.What should fans expect from you inManmarziyan?It is going to be very different from Dum Laga Ke Haisha. My character is not like Sandhya at all. For me, Manmarziyan is like my first film all over again. It is going to be a classic love story and will be very relatable and relevant to the notions of love today. I hope that I live up to the expectations that my fans have and that it leaves an impact on them.Is it true that you had no idea you were being auditioned forDum Laga Ke Haisha?I still cannot understand how my life panned out this way. Yes, I did not know that the mock audition I gave was actually considered for the movie. I always wanted to be an actor and that is why I enjoyed casting so much. I was finally told that I got selected as the lead actress for the film on my 23rd birthday and was very excited. It was a wonderful birthday gift.Unlike many debut actors who want to look glamorous in their first film, you chose to play an unconventional role of a heavy looking woman. You had to specially gain weight for the role. Did you have any doubt that it may be a risky proposition?It was an unconventional role. However, I never had any doubts about the role as acting was my first priority. So, after getting an opportunity like that, I did not intend to let go of it. Getting a chance to work with Yash Raj Films, having Sharat Kataria as a director and Ayushmann Khurrana as a co-actor, there was no reason to have second thoughts about this project. I got an opportunity and I grasped it. I did not have any inhibitions or qualms about the role at all.What are your thoughts on heavy girls and those who strive to have size zero figure?As far I am concerned I have never been a skinny girl. I feel being heavy is not wrong; we should be comfortable in our own skin. However being unhealthy is problematic. You should do what makes you happy. As for being size zero, I don’t think that this concept exists anymore. Only being fit matters. People have finally started to break away from the predetermined notions of what beauty is and that is a good change for society. Even if we talk about models, they are not skinny as they used to be.When I was playing a heavy woman for Dum Laga Ke Haisha, I was appreciated for my work and my personality. Being content is what matters. You should be fit and healthy. And till the time you are both, it is all good.