http://www.thehindu.com/features/magazine/Nothing-like-some-soap/article13988500.ece

What does a film critic watch while on vacation? I was surprised people even thought this a question worth asking, and then someone explained. With “normal” folks (a category I clearly do not belong to), holidays are a time to catch up on films, but when your work itself is catching up with films...?I would like to report that I used my holiday to watch seven-hour black-and-white epics by Hungarian auteur Béla Tarr, but alas, I am made of shallower stuff. Among my indulgences: the new Star Wars movie and a back-to-back marathon of the still-entertaining Back to the Future trilogy, the second film of which takes place in 2015. In other words, a year that’s supposed to be the distant future just became part of the past. I felt really old.I also ended up, as I always do, re-watching some of my favourite older films. I saw Laura again, the 1944 noir directed by Otto Preminger. It has one of my favourite characters, the suavely venomous newspaper columnist Waldo Lydecker, who’s made from the same mould as Addison DeWitt, the theatre critic from All about Eve. The film revolves around the murder of the titular character, and in an early scene, a detective named McPherson interrogates Lydecker. Just see how cracklingly clever the dialogue is. McPherson asks, “Were you in love with Laura Hunt, Mr. Lydecker? Was she in love with you?” Lydecker replies, “Laura considered me the wisest, the wittiest, the most interesting man she’d ever met. And I was in complete accord with her on that point. She thought me also the kindest, the gentlest, the most sympathetic man in the world.” McPherson asks, “Did you agree with her there, too?” Lydecker replies, “McPherson, you won’t understand this; but I tried to become the kindest, the gentlest, the most sympathetic man in the world.” McPherson asks, “Have any luck?” Lydecker replies, “Let me put it this way. I should be sincerely sorry to see my neighbours’ children devoured by wolves.”Who writes lines like these anymore? Another re-re-re-watch: East of Eden. Of the three movies James Dean made, Rebel without a Cause is the one I like least, the ultra-Bollywoody Giant the one I like most. This one’s somewhere in the middle, an oddly constricted slice of the sprawling Steinbeck novel. Speaking of literary adaptations, I also saw Room, which is based on the excellent book by Emma Donoghue. The film is very good (as is Brie Larson, as the mother kept captive in the titular space), but I must say I preferred the book, which invites us into that room, to gaze at the things inside that room through the eyes of five-year-old Jack — he makes the ordinary just a little bit off with his insistence on referring to things by their name. (“Hello sink,” “Hello TV,” “Hello rug.”) In the movie, we see the sink and the TV. In the book, we saw, through the mind’s eye, the sink and the TV the boy saw.The most fun I had was wasting many, many hours on Downton Abbey. Everyone’s been telling me to watch this series about the aristocratic Crawley family negotiating a series of upheavals in the post-Edwardian era — and I was hooked right from the opening episodes, thanks mainly to two great female characters. One, the peerless Dowager Countess, played by the peerless Maggie Smith, who keeps mouthing the most peerless lines. And two, Mary Crawley, whose fascinating mix of virtues and vices kept reminding me of Scarlett O’Hara — she’s selfish, vain, mean to her sister, and yet, kind and genuinely concerned about people she loves, even if they are servants. At first, though, I was a little disappointed. When you think “great TV,” you think Breaking Bad, Dexter, Mad Men — shows that have redefined what television can do. So imagine my surprise when, after all the talk, Downton Abbey turned out to be a... soap. I don’t have a problem with soaps — it’s just that I wouldn’t actively seek one out. Yet, after some mental recalibration, I found the show quite addictive. I guess we’re all suckers for a good yarn.The writer is The Hindu’s cinema critic