http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/society/Notes-on-a-string/article13999460.ece

G rammy Award nominee, BBC award winner and virtuoso lap slide guitarist Debashish Bhattacharya, says he could sing before he could recite the alphabet. And no wonder. He is part of a legacy with an illustrious musical lineage that goes back seven generations. A child prodigy, Debashish has helped in bringing Indian classical music to the masses. At age 15, he designed his first Chaturangui and created a genre called Hindustani Slide Guitar. He has performed with renowned artistes such as Bob Brozman, Zakir Hussain, John McLaughlin, Jerry Douglas and the late Mandolin Srinivas.The artiste, who will be performing at Vyloppilly Samskriti Bhavan on Saturday, 6.30 p.m., as part of Alliance Francaise de Trivandrum’s Indian and Creole Project, speaks to MetroPlus in an email interview. Excerpts…Of all the musical instruments that you could have picked, why did you choose to specialise in the guitar?Well, there was a Hawaiian guitar lying around in the house when I was a kid. Since no one was using it, I started strumming it. I had my first guitar recital at four on All India Radio. I have learnt the technique of almost all Hindustani string instruments and have tried to emulate the soundscape of these instruments through my guitars.You have created your own guitars…I have always felt that in music, the artiste has the responsibility of carrying the tradition into the future. When I started playing the guitar, I listened to Indian musical greats such as Pandit Ravi Shanker, for instance, and realised that my guitar did not sound like those traditional Indian instruments. I needed something to play Indian classical raga music and that led to the creation of my three guitars – Chaturangi (22- stringed), Gandharvi (14-stringed) and Anandi (four-stringed). Although the guitars look similar, they are sonically different from one another. I feel these instruments are my humble contribution to the 5,000 years of Indian culture, art and music.How would you describe your brand of music?Indian. Raga. Indo Jazz. Fusion. New Music. Traditional music. Slide guitar music. I have a question though. How do you brand ocean, air or grassland? Music is a direct product of nature. The music industry has classified music into categories. To me, I am a guitar player, a world music artiste and a Hindustani musician.Your daughter, Anandi, lends her voice to various concerts and albums, what is your equation with her as a parent, teacher and performer?As a parent, we share a love and hate relationship. As a teacher, I try to find her pluses and minuses so that I can groom her better. As a performer, she is very hardworking and sharp.What kind of music can the people of the city expect during the concert?I will be performing with Rene and Marco Lacaille at the concert. I met them at the Quebec City Summer Festival in 2001. We jammed a little and liked the rhythmic melodies we made. The audience can expect Hindustani, world music, Creole French African and mixes. It will be a new listening experience wherein the audience can listen to my brother, Subhashish and I play, and then tune in to both Rene and Marco and finally enjoy a fusion of Indian and Creole music.Upcoming projectsI am producing a music album titled ‘Girls Trio’. The album has Charu Hariharan, Gal Maestro from Israel and my daughter Anandi performing. The album will have a blend of Indian classical music, Western classical music and jazz. There is also a global album with 36 songs. These songs will be divided into six albums and will be released as a series. The album will have music from across the globe.