http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/kozhikode/Noukacharitam-gets-a-Kathakali-makeover/article14010043.ece

: Dhyanasankalpam, an open studio for murals in Kozhikode, has the rare distinction of presenting ‘Noukacharitam’, a monumental work of Saint Thyagaraja, in two formats — in murals and Kathakali. The story has been depicted in a series of six paintings on the walls of Sree Krishna Temple in Mankavu Palace. The Kathakali version was staged at the Manavedan Auditorium on Sunday. ‘Noukacharitam’ is not a well known tale in Kerala. The story of Lord Krishna’s little stunt on a boat to teach the women of Brindavan a lesson is not featured in any of the Indian epics. But Saint Thayagaraja, a doyen of Carnatic music, made up the story and wrote an opera on it.Dhyanasankalpam got acquainted with the tale through its co-founder Hari Kumar, who hails from Andhra Pradesh. He translated the work into English, which was later translated to Malayalam by another author. It was based on this translation that Dhyanasankalpam, headed by mural artist Sasi Edavarad, depicted the story on the walls of the temple. It has been done as a series of six paintings in 2012. In 2014, Dhyanasankalpam received the award for Heritage Conservation from REACH Foundation, Chennai for its work.Radha Madhava, known for her various Attakkathas and poems, came across the work around the same time. The Kathakali form was performed for the first time in a capsule format for Doordarshan. However, the complete play was performed for the first time at Mankavu on Sunday. Kalamandalam Manoj played Krishnan while Kalamandalam Sajan, Kottakkal Pradeep, Haripriya Namboothiri and Induja Cheruliyil played the women of Brindavan.Dhyanasankalpam is known for its campaign to reclaim public spaces for traditional art forms. Their works are found on the walls of Trissala Bhagavathi in Mankavu and various other buildings across the State. ‘Tree of Knowledge,’ a 1,300-square feet mural on the walls of Government Vocational Higher Secondary School in Nadakkavu, commissioned by Dhyanasankalpam is considered the biggest mural painting in the State.