http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Now-race-to-corner-glory/article13980185.ece

The Oommen Chandy government appears to be in a race against time to go down in history as one of the few governments in the State’s history that could successfully implement several major infrastructure projects during its tenure.The government was quite focused on the infra projects during the first part of its tenure, but had lost its way mid-course, due mainly to the many scandals that rocked it en route. Now, it appears, there is a sudden sense of urgency among the government to take the projects to at least partial fruition so that it can reap the commensurate political mileage when the Assembly elections are announced.There is a flurry of activity at major projects sites these days, clearly a sign that the government does not want to find itself on the wrong foot when the Election Commission clamps down on it with the Model Code of Conduct.The Kochi Metro, which is hoped to take the ‘Queen of the Arabian Sea’ to the status of ‘metro’ cities, is all set for trial run on January 23. The four-laned National Highway 66 stretch between Karamana and Kaliyikkaavila, which could shorten the duration time taken to travel from the State capital to Kanyakumari substantially, is getting its finishing touches and is due for inauguration in a few days. The test landing at the Kannur international airport is to take place in February.Not satisfied with all this, the government also appears to be gearing up for the launch of at least three major projects—the Rapid Rail Transport System (RRTS), for which a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) is to be formed, the Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode Metros. With the Union Cabinet clearing the proposal for creation of SPVs that would facilitate cost-sharing between the Centre and the States for implementation of railway projects, the path has been cleared for launch of a State-level SPV that can take up the RRTS and some long cherished railway development projects. The Oommen Chandy government looks in no mood to lose that opportunity.The Public Works Department is all set for a review of all projects, including that for construction of 100 bridges on 100 days, on Tuesday to expedite these works.Many other departments are stated to be following suit to enable the UDF to pitch development, along with care, as its major election planks so that it can take a shot at returning to power.‘Anti-fascist’ tag appears a favourite with most political parties in Kerala, but the big question whether they realize the true meaning of the word fascism still begs an answer.The question was posed to one of the organisers of an ‘anti-fascist’ convention planned to be held at Kannur on Monday to mark the launch of the ‘Janaraksha Yatra’ being undertaken by Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president V.M. Sudheeran. The man looked confused for a brief while, but was quick to list the Sangh Parivar and the CPI(M) as two fascist forces. The Congress functionary seemed cautious not to include in his list any other group , especially given the row over torching of the studio of photographer Rafeeque Taliparamba at Taliparamba on December 26 for his critical comment on purdah on social media.The police and the official machinery in Idukki are a worried lot these days. For this is the time when the ‘black man’ makes his appearance. Myth, reality or plain hoax, the ‘black man’ has been sowing seeds of fear in the minds of the local populace for the past four years, surprisingly during harvest time, and that is telling on the law enforcers as well.Going by popular description, ‘he’ is fully clad in black, all of six feet in height with a well-built physique. It is not the ‘black man’ who worries the officials, but the possibility of the bogey being used to facilitate theft of the yield from farms. When one kg of cardamom can fetch Rs. 1,500 and pepper Rs. 700, who wouldn’t want to create a ‘black man’ to steal the precious crops, ask cops, warning the farmers to take care or be hit by the ‘black man’.With inputs fromS. Anil Radhakrishnan (Thiruvananthapuram), Mohamed Nazeer (Kannur) and Giji K. Raman (Idukki)