http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Now-lie-in-it/article14026787.ece

Ah, that first step into the chill interior of the Plaza, or the Supreme, or the Royal Park Whatsit. The room boy turns the air conditioning as cold as possible and the television as loud as it can go before scratching his head with a meaningful look. Once we put things back to rights, we test whether the pillows are soft, peer suspiciously into the water jug, and count the towels.The real test comes at night, when we test out two dozen light switches and heave up a 50 kg mattress just to loosen the covers and get into bed.I’ve always wondered: how do people in the West slide their torsos into a tightly made bed when I can barely slide a greeting card into an envelope? The right way to make a bed, as every Indian knows, is to drape a cover of seasonally appropriate weight on top. In cold weather, wrap yourself tightly in a razai as if forming a cocoon and, in the morning, emerge as a butterfly. In warmer weather, stick your feet out the bottom of a blanket whenever you need to cool off. In hot weather, toss and turn until the top sheet is twisted into a rope and the bottom sheet resembles a plate of scrambled eggs.Hotels in India insist on making us live like our one-time colonial overlords. We drink weak tea, which we assemble ourselves, or coffee brewed so bitter that no amount of milk can temper it.We high step into a slippery bathtub, instead of walking into a sensible shower stall. And at night we wrestle with a bed made in the European style.It ought to keep us warm, but chill winds from the air conditioning blow into the spaces between the tucked-in sheets and our knees, now bare because our pyjamas have scrunched up.We can try tugging the sheets free but, after housekeeping has been through the rooms every morning, they evidently send round a carpenter to nail down the blankets. So we crawl in between the layers, wriggle down to the bottom, and scrabble at the edges to cover our shoulders. If only the finer hotels had a tuck-in service rather than a turn-down service.Who mandates this torturous bed-making? Is the hotel otherwise running to European standards? Is there hot water, for instance, whenever you want it? As if. There’s usually hot water for a couple of hours in the morning and a lukewarm promise in the evening. You’re out of luck if all the VIPs and foreign tourists have checked out. Or the hotel claims to have solar heating, which means you get a cold bath.After which you shiver in your enormous towel, shuffle into your entirely unnecessary terry slippers, cross the arctic expanse to the bed, and start tugging. What a relief it will be to go home tomorrow.