http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/kozhikode/Now-a-mobile-app-to-locate-e-toilets/article14018903.ece

: With the all-new e-toilets being launched in the city on February 1, Eram Scientific Solutions, manufacturers of these toilet units, have come up with value-addition to the existing system. An e-toilet mobile application will also be launched, which will help the public to search and locate the nearest e-toilet, T. Anvar Sadath, Chief Executive Officer of Eram Scientific Solutions informed.The Application that works on any Android-supported phone, can be downloaded from Google Play Store by typing in the key word ‘etoilets’. Its features include locating the nearest e-toilets via map and address listings, understanding the mode of operations, mode of access and information on facilities such as napkin vending machine and incinerator attached to it. The application also enables sharing feedback on the user experience of the toilet along with image uploading. Through this App, the public can also suggest new location for e-toilets where the facility is not available at present.The application saves the Corporation as well as the manufacturers the concern that the toilets may not be very visible to the public in their present locations. Right from the time the e-toilets were first installed in Kozhikode, there have been complaints that they were placed too much in the open, as a result of which women were hesitant to use it. But being in the open was necessary for the women to notice it. Now, with the app, the users could just search to locate it even when the toilets are installed in a secluded location.Another version of the e-toilet App will be made available for the Corporation authorities and administrators to monitor the e-toilet usage statistics, health status, water condition and facilities available. The application will also generate reports on usages. This enables them to ensure that the e-toilets are well maintained while some trouble-shooting can be done even from remote locations.