http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Vijayawada/Now-youth-turn-restive-over-job-promise/article14024240.ece

Even while the capital city farmers are agitating against the provisions in the master plan released by the AP Capital Region Development Authority (CRDA), the youth from Amaravati raised their voice against the government’s alleged failure in providing employment to them as it was promised.Scores of youngsters staged a dharna in front of the CRDA office here on Wednesday, demanding that the government and CRDA authorities clear air on the promises of providing jobs. Lenin, one of the protesting youth, said that the authorities gave a wide publicity in villages that the qualified youth would get jobs in the CRDA. Trusting their words, many B.E. and B.Tech. graduates left their jobs in various parts of the country. The issue was brought to the notice of CRDA Commissioner, Additional Commissioners, Guntur Joint Collector, MLAs, MPs and Ministers, but in vain. “To our utter dismay, the CRDA authorities have been silent since then,” he said.Further, the protesters accused the CRDA of killing their precious time. The youngsters were forced to spend seven months time in undergoing training at Echerla in Srikakulam, through the Andhra Pradesh State Skill Development Corporation (APSSDC) and other places. The youth were taken to a Spinning Mill in Boyapalem assuring a handsome salary. The officials promised a salary of Rs.10,000 and above. But, the spinning mill management offered mere Rs. 6,000. With this, the youth lost trust in the CRDA, he said.The protesting youth demanded the government to spell out whether it would provide jobs to them or not. They wanted the government to provide jobs in temporary capital, CRDA office coming up at Thullur, vacant posts in various departments. They also wanted to know why the government did not issue certificates to 113 candidates who completed training.The youth wanted the government to announce comprehensive employment policy for capital city.Trusting the promises, many B.E. and B.Tech. graduates left their jobs with the hopes of getting engaged by the CRDA. But, to our dismay, the authorities have been silent since then- Lenin,a protester