http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/NSS-opposes-women%E2%80%99s-entry-to-Sabarimala/article13996283.ece

The Nair Service Society (NSS), the Akhila Bharatha Ayyappa Seva Sanghom (ABASS), and Sabarimala Tantris (chief priests) have strongly opposed the idea of permitting women of all age group to the Sabarimala Ayyappa Temple.Responding to the observations made by the Supreme Court, questioning the logic behind barring women from entering the temple, NSS president P.N. Narendranathan Nair told The Hindu that ‘‘this is purely a matter concerning the unique custom and tradition followed at a pilgrim centre and hence a logical analysis has no relevance at all.’’Mr. Nair, a former District and Sessions Judge, said there was no total ban on women’s entry to Sabarimala as girls up to the age of 10 years and women above 50 years of age had no bar at all.Mr. Nair said barring women who had attained puberty from entering Sabarimala which was revered as the abode of Lord Ayyappa in the form of a persistent bachelor (Naishtika Brahmachari) was an age-old custom. He said the NSS was the first to implead in the case, opposing the argument of the petitioners demanding women’s entry into the temple.Mr. Nair said a democratically elected government and the judiciary were bound to protect such age-old custom and tradition. The government could even explore the possibility of protecting such custom and tradition through appropriate legislation, he said.He said there were also other places of worship such as mosques where women were not permitted and it was grossly inappropriate to question such custom and tradition followed by the faithful.Matter of faith: ABASSABASS vice president D. Vijayakumar said the judiciary was not supposed to interfere in matters relating to faith, custom and tradition prevailing in a place of worship.He said the Sanghom had impleaded in the case, opposing the affidavit filed by the Kerala government that had favoured entry of women of all age group to Sabarimala way back in 2008 itself.‘Bid to break custom’Mr. Vijayakumar said women in the age group of 10 to 50 years could offer prayers at various other Ayyappa temples and why should there be a conscious attempt to break the age-old custom at Sabarimala.He said denial of entry for women in a specific age group was solely on the basis of certain ritualistic and tantric tradition. The ABASS would strongly oppose any move to hurt the sentiments of Ayyappa devotees, he said.Tantric traditionKandararu Rajeevararu and Kandararu Mohanararu, who hold the right to perform tantric rites at Sabarimala, too are against permitting women who have attained puberty to Sabarimala.The Tantris said the idol installation at the temple was made treating the deity as a persistent bachelor and hence the tantra seldom permitted women who had attained puberty to enter there.Moreover, it was the Kerala High Court that had fixed the age limit of 10 to 50 years for barring women from entering Sabarimala in 1983, they added.