http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/NTR-Beach-Festival-to-be-held-on-the-lines-of-Visakha-Utsav/article13984374.ece

Stating that NTR Beach Festival in Kakinada would be celebrated on the lines of the recently-held ‘Visakha Utsav’, State Finance Minister Yanamala Ramakrishnudu said here on Tuesday that the event was aimed at promoting the tourist attractions in East Godavari district.After inspecting the beach where the arrangements were under way for the three-day festival to be inaugurated by Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu at 7 p.m. on January 8, Mr. Ramakrishnudu held talks with officials before interacting with the media. “The idea is to attract national and international tourists to this region. Not just the beach, but we have mangroves and islands here which will attract the tourists in their very first visit,” he said.Stating that the State government sanctioned Rs. 1 crore to celebrate the beach festival for the first time, Mr. Ramakrishnudu said that plans were afoot to celebrate a special ‘Konaseema Festival’ very soon with the government funding. “Besides providing entertainment to the public, these festivals will also help accelerate the economic activity. People spend some of their savings on entertainment and food here, which, in turn, will help traders improve their business,” he explained.Officials inspect beachEarlier in the day, Collector H. Arun Kumar along with Superintendent of Police M. Ravi Prakash inspected the beach and reviewed the arrangements.He said that helicopter ride would become the major attraction of this year’s festival, as the idea was to take people on a short tour with a nominal fare. “This year, we are arranging the replicas of all major temples in the district. This will attract the senior citizens,” he pointed out.Joint Collector S. Satyanarayana said that as a prelude to the festival, a 2K Run would be conducted on the beach on January 7, in which over 5,000 students from different educational institutions would participate. Officials of different departments were busily making arrangements for the festival.