http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/Nuclear-scientist-against-bizarre-theories/article13994055.ece

A few months ago, distinguished Pakistani nuclear scientist Pervez Hoodhboy had written an article for a leading newspaper back home titled ‘Jinns invade campus’. His piece began with him explaining how a ‘spiritual cardiologist’ tried to prove the existence of Jinns (medieval mythological creatures) at a packed hall in a leading Islamabad university. That particular article received more than 200 comments, with some people lauding and some reviling the author for what he wrote. For Mr. Hoodbhoy, however, that comes as no surprise, as he is known for speaking against pseudo-science and the ‘Islamisation’ of science in Pakistan. Currently in town to participate in the Hyderabad Literary Festival-2016, the 65-year-old professor of physics and mathematics speaks to Yunus Y. Lasania in an interview to The Hindu . Excerpts:About the recent article that you wrote, since when have such ideas pervaded into Pakistani universities? Similarly, there have been instances in India where mythology was brought into scientific events. Your thoughts?That was a workshop at the COMSATS institute in Islamabad. Islamic science has been around since the 1980s when Zia-ul-Haq wanted to Islamise all the education in Pakistan, including physics, mathematics and of course, biology. I say ‘of course’ because it is used to reject the Darwinian theory of evolution. It was very interesting how this was done. Conferences were called between all Muslim countries and they came up with bizarre theories. Those bizarre theories can compete with those heard in India today.And what do you think has been the result of all that ‘Islamising’? Have people actually started to believe in such things?Apart from a handful of people, no one else stood up and opposed conferences based on ‘Islamic-science’. Opposition to pseudo-science is much higher in India. There are a number of people who are defensive about their religion, who take positions that are anti-science and against reason and evidence.Being someone who speaks out against pseudo-science, have you faced any problems since you are so vocal about your thoughts?I retired after teaching at the Quaid-e-Azam University is Islamabad for more than 42 years, and joined another varsity in Lahore. I was dismissed because the people running the place found my views on religion, science and political matters not acceptable. I often write in newspapers and am frequently seen on television, so I am in that sense a very public person. Anyone who puts himself in opposition, not just to the Pakistani State, but goes against the grain of society, has to face the consequences. I am fortunate that so far I am here.And what kind of an atmosphere has all of these created in universities among students in Pakistan?I see a huge amount of religiosity among students, who have become very regular at prayers and fasting. There has been an increase in burkhas on the street. I can hardly see 50 per cent of faces among girl students. When I started teaching in 1973, there was not a single burkha, and now it is extremely unusual to see an uncovered head.And what about the role of clerics in Pakistan? Do they have a say in education?Unfortunately, clerics have too great a role in education. They insist on the existing curriculum remaining the same, because is it is full of regressive elements, suspicion of other people’s religion, and promoting a very narrow minded view of Pakistani nationalism. Even governments that have tried hard and taken risks to change it were unsuccessful.However, now there is greater realisation and with the 18{+t}{+h}Amendment which gives greater autonomy to provinces, there is hope that this change will come.