http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Madurai/Number-of-passports-issued-in-2015-higher-says-official/article13981297.ece

The number of passports issued in 2015 was higher by 25,131 over the number of passports issued in 2014, said Regional Passport Officer S. Maniswararaja here on Monday.Speaking to reporters on the performance of the region, he said that 2,54,708 passports were issued in 2015 against 2,29,577 issued in 2014. This was about 10 per cent higher.Madurai region comprised Madurai, Theni, Dindigul, Sivaganga, Virudhunagar, Ramanathapuram, Tirunelveli, Tuticorin and Kanyakumari districts.There were two Passport Seva Kendras – one in Madurai and the other in Tirunelveli.He said that passport officials conducted three special camps at Ramanathapuram, Dindigul and Sivakasi, in which about 1,400 applicants benefitted.After processing, passports were issued to them at the camps. Two ‘melas’ were held in Madurai and Tirunelveli.A total of 125 passports were impounded in 2015 due to various reasons and 270 other passport applicants were referred to police for legal action after the documents, such as birth certificate, submitted by them were found to be fake.Online appointmentMr. Maniswararaja said that the officials conducted ‘melas’ to clear backlogs of long-pending applications. With more number of applicants preferring the online route on their own and through e-seva centres handled by the government, giving appointments had become more transparent and faster.Madurai RPO would be able to give appointment the next day for applicants seeking fresh passports, he said.Discretionary powersCongratulating his team of officials, Mr. Maniswararaja said that in 2014, they were able to issue passports to many deserving students, sportsperson and differently abled persons who had to participate in the Paralympics held in Los Angeles, US, at the last minute. “We had a sense of satisfaction when the passport holders returned with laurels,” he noted.The RPO here issued a passport to a five-day-old baby enabling it to board the aircraft with her parents on time. Similarly, close to 150 students who had to join medical courses in foreign countries, including Philippines, were issued passports swiftly after they approached the office at the eleventh hour.However, Mr. Maniswararaja stressed that all applications could be processed only after due verification by the authorities and no precedence would be applicable in this regard.