http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/Obese-woman-undergoes-knee-replacement/article14022030.ece

Doctors at Indraprastha Apollo Hospital have successfully operated upon a 55-year-old Afghan woman suffering from obesity-induced early arthritis. She received total knee replacement for both the knee joints.The patient was under tremendous discomfort and suffering from obesity-induced early arthritis, that had completely damaged her knees, left her bedridden for several years and at severe risk of other obesity-related morbidities.The procedure on the woman weighing 135 kg was performed by Rajeev K. Sharma, senior consultant, orthopaedics and joint replacement surgeon at Indraprastha Apollo Hospital.“The successful outcome of the complex procedure also dispels the myth that joint replacements do not prove successful on excessively heavy patients,” noted the doctor.Giving details of the case, the hospital noted that at 135 kg, the patient was also under severe threat of obesity-induced diseases like diabetes, hypertension and heart disease.Doctors back home repeatedly advised her to lose weight and start exercising if she wanted to live a healthy and productive life. However, with her knees failing to support her body weight and her inability to walk or make any substantial movement further aggravated her health condition and co-morbidities. When her condition deteriorated to a threatening level, the family decided to travel to India to seek treatment.“The problem of excessive weight creates a dangerous cycle. While excessive weight damages knee joints and makes walking and exercise difficult, lack of physical movement in turn further causes increase in weight and augments arthritic conditions. This patient was so heavy that her knees suffered early wear and tear, and progressed into severe damage with time. So much so that she could hardly walk without support. She was ultimately restricted to the bed. Her condition necessitated a total knee arthroplasty immediately,” explained Dr. Sharma.In the instant case, an immediate procedure was needed to enable the patient to walk again and lead an independent life, which would automatically have other health advantages.“Knee replacement procedures are more difficult and time consuming in people who are overweight as they have excess fatty tissue surrounding the joints. In this case, though the woman was relatively younger — 55-year-old — as compared to other joint replacement patients, but the damage sustained by her knees due to weight resembled that of a 70-year-old woman,” added Dr. Sharma.With the surgery turning out to be successful, the patient is hopeful of leading a normal life once again.