http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/OddEven_ka_Raita-spiced-up-online-war/article13992708.ece

Social media sites became the war-front, with supporters of the ruling Aam Aadmi Party and the Opposition BJP clashing online over the government's ambitious road rationing experiment. The New Year started with the odd-even scheme's launch, which brought out trolls who had a laugh at the expense of the AAP government. With Delhiites supporting the scheme on the streets, the Opposition took their fight online. Used by BJP supporters, the hashtag #OddEven_ka_Raita was among the top trends on Twitter on January 4. Also trending that day, was #OddEvenSuccess, which was used by AAP volunteers to post photos and quotes showing that the scheme was working. Posting 'before and after' photos of the same stretch of road, AAP supporters said the government deserved credit for reducing traffic. The BJP supporters countered that with data of pollution levels, which did not see a significant decline.The odd-even scheme had an unintended consequence – it made the online debate better informed. People who usually just call each other names were bringing up PM and NOx levels to make their points.A verbal duel was triggered between Transport Minister Gopal Rai and the representative of a popular Hindi news channel over an alleged ploy to "defame the odd-even scheme" at a press conference earlier this week.The episode came in the wake of pictures showing massive commuter footfall at the Rajiv Chowk metro station being portrayed as a consequence of the scheme's implementation on a Monday, which were later found to have been old pictures and "irresponsibly circulated" by the said channel.Mr. Rai sat beside senior Delhi Metro representatives in a bid to clear the air after which a representative of the channel which the government had chosen only to allude to instead of naming asked the Transport Minister an uncomfortable question.Dubbing and referring to the scheme as "Pappu", the reporter asked Mr. Rai whether he thought Pappu had passed or failed on the first day of implementation of the scheme.In reaction to this a usually calm and witty Mr. Rai said it was too early to judge whether the scheme passed or failed but the entire city now knew who the real Pappu of television channels was.Much to the embarrassment of the said reporter.A citizen’s charter released by the Delhi High Court last week has laid emphasis on people’s right to get speedy justice by ensuring that the court systems, including infrastructure and manpower, work to the best advantage of its users. It has also resolved to strengthen mechanisms for alternative dispute resolution, such as Lok Adalats, mediation and arbitration.The citizen’s charter has reiterated the High Court’s commitment to uphold the principle of judicial impartiality and promote transparency in all processes of judicial system. It also called for assimilation and optimisation of technological developments for efficient working of the court system.“A safe and secure environment will be provided to the end users by adopting the best environmental practices and optimising the use of all available resources,” stated the charter. It assured the public that if a complaint is made against the High Court’s staff, action will be taken within 30 days.The HC also requested the litigants, general public and lawyers sto help it serve them better by following the instructions given to them, arriving in time for hearings, cooperating with the security checks and treating the court staff, other court users and court buildings with respect.(Contributed by Damini Nath, Jatin Anand and Mohammed Iqbal)