http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/Odd-even-brings-out-an-odd-pairing/article13979412.ece

The odd-even car rationing experiment by the Aam Aadmi Party Government had an unintended consequence on the BJP-led municipal corporations last week. Though they didn't come out in support of the pollution control initiative, leaders and officials of the civic bodies started sharing cars in order to comply with the restrictions. A senior officer and a BJP office-bearer in the North Delhi Municipal Corporation shared a ride to the headquarters at the Civic Centre on January 2. While the two made their way for a special budget session of the Standing Committee, they ended up putting finishing touches on the proposals. The officer commented that it was the first time that the two, who have been working together for years, were able to discuss issues in great detail as they had time to talk in the car."Thanks to the odd-even rule, we were able to add elements to the proposals that have never been included, like potential sources of income and how to tap into those," said the officer.Others, including the Commissioner who is car-pooling with Engineering Department officials, have also made provisions to get through the 15-day experiment.On Day One of the odd-even scheme, while the Chief Minister and two Cabinet ministers went to the Delhi Secretariat by carpooling, and two other ministers used public transport, Tourism Minister Kapil Mishra went on his bike from his residence in Yamuna Vihar to the Secretariat. After reporters asked him why he didn’t opt for public transport as his motor bike will not help in bringing down the pollution levels, his close associates said that Mishra from Monday will be using a bus.The Delhi BJP is in a fix after the positive response of the public towards the odd-even policy. While the entire gamut of the State party leadership dismissed the policy as "impractical" there has been almost no word from the same leaders in last two days. The situation turned piquant when a senior leader of the party termed the move as "good start" but the State leaders chose not to react after it was seen to be largely a success. Party MP Meenakshi Lekhi had earlier said that the scheme was bound to fail as Arvind Kejriwal did not want to do the hard work needed to improve Delhi's enviornment. Similarly, Delhi BJP chief Satish Upadhyay had said that the scheme was launched in a "hurry" without working out the "micro-details" of the plan.The Delhi government’s approval of Rs.116 crore for the construction of a new block of the Delhi High Court is being looked forward to with much anticipation, as the legal fraternity has expressed the hope that it will lessen the pressure on the court’s existing infrastructure.The High Court’s Building Maintenance and Construction Committee had proposed construction of a new building on a 2.74 acre land at Bapa Nagar on Zakir Hussain Marg to meet the requirement of additional infrastructure. The need for a new block was felt in view of a larger work load and increase in the sanctioned strength of judges.The proposed new building will be called Block-S. The Delhi government’s share out of the total estimated cost of the construction project of Rs 166 crore has been fixed at 70 per cent and the State Cabinet recently approved its share amounting to Rs.116 crore. The Union government will provide Rs.49.90 crore as part of its 30 per cent share.From a modest beginning, the High Court has at present the sanctioned strength of 60 judges, including 45 permanent and 15 additional judges. President Pranab Mukherjee had noted at the High Court’s golden jubilee celebrations on October 31 last year that it had contributed 25 illustrious judges to the Supreme Court.(Contributed by Swetas Goswami, Damini Nath, Maria Akram and Mohammed Iqbal)