http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Odd-even-formula-burning-of-waste-discussed-at-pre-budget-meeting/article13995011.ece

The introduction of odd-even formula to reduce traffic in city roads, measures to avoid burning municipal wastes, and improving basic facilities in the city were some of the suggestions put forward in the pre-budget meeting organised by the Hassan City Municipal Council in Hassan on Monday. The council conducts such a meeting with representatives of different citizens’ forums every year, before presenting the budget.M. Shivaranna, freedom fighter, pointed out that the number of vehicles had been on the rise in the city. “Pollution level is also increasing with the increase in number of vehicles in the city. It is better to follow the odd-even formula, mooted by the Delhi government, in Hassan as well. Such a measure will reduce traffic and pollution,” he said. He urged the CMC to rename Race Course Road in the city as Swanthantra Marga. Decades ago, when Hassan was under the rule of Mysore kings, the royal family used to stay in Hassan during summer. “Those days, Hassan was known for its weather and the king and his family opted to spend their summer here. During their stay, the royal family members used to go on a horse ride from their bungalow towards Salagame. And the road they took for horse ride has been referred to as Race Course Road for many years. The time has come to change it,” he suggested.A senior citizen, participating in the debate, alleged that the CMC had not taken enough care to keep the city clean. “I have seen CMC employees burning waste dumped on the roadside. The pourakarmikas carry matchboxes in their pocket for this purpose. Many people who go for a walk in the morning hours have witnessed this,” he said and asked the officers to take measures to avoid the practice in future.Waste dumped on roadsideGanesh, a resident of Pension Mohalla, said waste generated in marriage halls and chicken stalls was being dumped near Ring Road. “Despite my repeated appeals, you have not taken action against those polluting the environment. Better cancel licences issued to marriage halls and chicken stalls if they failed to follow the set procedures to dispose wastes,” he said.CMC vice-president Prasanna Krishnamurthy said he was disappointed with the poor attendance of citizens in the meeting. Hardly 30-40 people attended the meeting. “I was expecting more people for the meeting,” he said. CMC president Srividya and commissioner Nagabhushan were present.