http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/Of-betrayal-and-revenge/article13986293.ece

For dancers, theatre artistes and litterateurs, Chilappathikaram of Elankovadikal has been an enduring source of inspiration. Kodungalloor Marumakan Raja, a mathematician by profession and a diehard fan of Kathakali, composed Chilappathikaram as a Kathakali play and staged it on several stages under the guidance of the late chenda maestro Kalamandalam Krishnankutty Poduwal.After a long interlude, Thrissur Kathakali Club took the initiative to bring the play back to the Kathakali stage. The presentation of ‘Chilappathikaram’ at Paramekkavu Agrasala enthralled spectators mainly on account of a renewed treatment of the familiar theme.Very much in tune with stage conventions of Kathakali, the opening scene was a sringara padam. Kalamandalam Balasubramanian as the wealthy Kovalan and Margi Vijayakumar as Kannaki, his bride, captivated the audience through their evocative ‘hasta’ mudras (hand gestures) and expressions. In the second scene, the Nattuvan of the Chola King comes with Madhavi, a courtesan. Haripriya Namboodiri as Madhavi performed a Sari dance, Panthadi and Kummi effortlessly. Madhavi eventually weds Kovalan. A sringara padam follows. Two consecutive sringara padams were insipid despite Balasubramanian’s impressive performance.Eventually, Kovalan leaves Madhavi. Kovalan and Kannaki reunite and decide to leave for Madurai where they plan to sell Kannaki’s chilambu, a jewel-studded anklet.The fifth scene introduced the goldsmith. Peesappally Rajeevan did the thantetaattam (words of conceit) so fluently that it left an indelible impression in the minds of the spectators. On hearing about the death of her husband, Kannaki breaks down. Her anguish gives way to intense rage and she proves her husband’s innocence. Margi Vijayakumar’s involvement in and commitment towards the character of Kannaki in this context were remarkable. The concluding scene of Kannaki rushing to the court of the Pandya King and confronting the Pandya king was a memorable act. While the King collapses, the city of Madurai bursts into flames. However, the action-packed scene did not go well with the organic framework of Kathakali. Kalamandalam Hari R. Nair who acted both as the Nattuvan and as Bhadrakali towards the end exuded theatrical exuberance.Kalanilayam Unnikrishnan ably supported by Kalamandalam Hareesh rendered the slokamsand the padams. Unnikrishnan could have applied relatively rare ragas especially in those scenes dealing with the emotional struggles of Kovalan and Kannaki, thereby giving a fresh dimension to the bhavas. Kalamandalam (Margi) Krishnadas and Kalamandalam Narayanan Nair led the melam in harmony with a gamut of expressions.The thematic thread of ‘Chilappathikaram’ is in consonance with the time-tested ‘chaturvidhabhinaya’ of Kathakali. Marumakan Raja was well aware of it. As a playwright, he has been faithful to the original story. However certain situations in it remind the audience of more tightly choreographed similar scenes in some of the popular Kathakali Plays.‘Chilappathikaram’ thus calls for meticulous editing to ensure its survival as part of the repertoire of Kathakali.