http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Of-chalk-duster-and-teacher/article13999498.ece

Having grown up in Ambala and Mumbai, actress Juhi Chawla knows a thing or two about the Indian educational system. But she came to know more about how things work, the ills plaguing this important field while shooting for her upcoming film “Chalk n’ Duster”.Known for her smiling countenance and cheerful spirit in films like “Qayamat Se Qayamat Tak”, “Hum Hai Rahi Pyaar Kai” and “Raju Ban Gaya Gentleman”, the actor is in the news these days for taking up this serious subject. “Chalk n’ Duster” analyses our educational system and seeing things from the side of students as well as teachers.The actor, who was recently in the Capital for promoting her latest venture, gave straightforward answers.For the first time you have acted as a teacher. How was the experience working in “Chalk n’ Duster”?The overall experience was simply amazing, though I had no experience of being a teacher. Initially I had to struggle a lot with the role and the clothes. In movies like Gulab Gang or Son of Sardar my roles were quite easy to act but being a teacher is a tough task. This role demands realistic portrayal of a middle class woman who buys vegetable, travels by scooty. I even got scolded on the first day by Shabanaji as the shooting started but I was late struggling with my attire, like what to wear and how to carry it.Education is becoming a business. What is your take on this?I heard five to seven years ago that prospering businesses in the coming years are going to be schools and hospitals. I wondered how schools can be a form of business but yes now I have actually realised after doing this movie. I have actually seen it happening. The scenario is totally changed, be it from the perspective of teachers or students.There is a line in our movie at the beginning when the Hindi teacher is teaching the students, “Agar tumhare samne gobind aur guru dono ho to ap kiske pair chhuoge”. If you have your teacher and Guru Gobind in front of you, whose feet will you touch first? I personally don’t think this question is relevant in today’s context because of the changing relationship between teachers and students.How can cinema help in bringing a change in society?Cinema has a great chance in changing the mindsets and greatly influencing our society. Therefore it is very important to make those films which convey social messages. This would enable us to inform and educate the masses while entertaining them.How according to you should the education system be like?Under the trees! (Laughs)…I think the open places serve as a perfect environment for effective learning. I too teach my son in the garden on weekends sometimes and believe me, I have realised that he learns a lot while we are studying and talking about different things.Also I find the wordings of my Guruji very appropriate and of a great concern too. He says, ‘Today we are preparing our children for universities and not the universe’. I believe this is the worst part of our education system.What success means to you and how one should strive to achieve it?I personally think we don’t need to compete with anybody to succeed but ourselves. For me it is really simple, I today must be better than I was yesterday and tomorrow I must be brighter than I am today. If I can achieve this then I am a successful person.