http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/Of-economic-hardship-and-painful-memories/article14026777.ece

Lalu Prasad Shaw had to suffer economic hardship as a child; Ganesh Pyne dealt with painful memories of Partition. Shaw found his calling in minimal and delicately-composed portraiture, Pyne created intense, brooding and complex mindscapes. Despite their entirely disparate backgrounds and contrasting art practice, they have emerged as two of Bengal’s most important modernists. Kolkata-based Cima Gallery’s exhibition “Ganesh Pyne & Lalu Prasad Shaw: Two Faces of Bengal Modernism” at Visual Arts Gallery captures the divergent expressions of two artists who studied and grew up at the same time.The show includes 33 works by Pyne and 23 works by Shaw. While Pyne’s work shows the dark not-so-secretive secrets contained within the very structures of the stories we have grown up with, Shaw’s works reconfigure the aesthetic of scenes from the ordinary.Ganesh Pyne, who passed away in 2013, is best known for his tempera works depicting symbols, myths and epics as they are lived out. Abanindranath Tagore and Paul Klee were some of his major influences and Pyne adopts both the quietness of the former and the strangeness of the latter. His jottings are matrices (done on graph paper) of spontaneous thoughts, quotes, and sketches that give a sense of the process of Pyne’s art-making.Lalu Prasad Shaw drew his influences from the Ajanta cave paintings and the Kalighat pat style to create his own style of distinct, defined lines and stark colours. He is known for his portraits, tempera works and etchings. Dwelling on the physical details of the things and people he paints, Shaw gives them a special kind of form and intimacy.Lalu Prasad Shaw and Ganesh Pyne were born in Bengal in the same year, 1937, studied together in Calcutta’s Government College of Art and craft, came under similar influences – notably the Bengal School – and went on to become important names in modern Indian art. And they weren’t temperamentally entirely different, for neither was an outgoing socialiser, though both valued their addas with artist-friends, each including the other in his group.But their circumstances were different. Shaw was born into a lower middle class family with limited means in a district town, Suri, in Birbhum district. Pyne grew up in an old neighbourhood of north Calcutta in a family home that, following 19th Century architectural grammar, harboured shadowy recesses a sensitive child could reinvent as his private retreat. But while Partition and the riots traumatised the big city, leaving the child Ganesh utterly shaken, Birbhum was spared the nightmare. Thus, if it was economic hardship that Shaw had to struggle with, Pyne’s struggle was with painful memories.(The show will be on at Visual Arts Gallery, IHC, New Delhi from February 1-6).