http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/Of-renewed-dreams-and-road-trips/article14015763.ece

Five years ago, when Hari Prasad (56) was diagnosed with Parkinson’s disease, never did he think that one day he would be able to take a road trip again.After battling Parkinson’s, a progressive disorder of the nervous system that affects movement, for almost six years, Mr. Prasad, an avid traveller, took off on a road trip with his wife on Friday. Very excited about the trip, he plans to cover 6,000 km from Bengaluru to Thimpu (Bhutan) and back over a period of 41 days.It was in 2009 that Mr. Prasad first experienced increased tremors in his left hand and associated slowness in his movements on the left side. In one year, the tremors increased along with slowness of gait and movement in his left hand. He was diagnosed with Parkinson’s disease by doctors at Columbia Asia Referral Hospital.Initially, he was put on medications, to which he responded well. But a year later, his condition worsened and the tremors progressed to the right limbs, further slowing down body movements. “I could not work properly or sit for long meetings. It was difficult for me to drive. I required help for day-to-day activities like shaving and dressing,” Mr. Prasad said.“By 2014, I started experiencing motor fluctuations. I had to take a break from work because of my condition. It had become very difficult for me to cope with the disease,” he said.Subsequently, when he developed involuntary movement of his upper trunk and complained of sleep issues and loss of concentration, his doctors, Guruprasad Hosurkar and Raghuram G., suggested he undergo deep brain stimulation (DBS), a surgical procedure used to treat disabling neurological symptoms.Mr. Prasad underwent bilateral DBS of the subthalamic nucleus in March 2015. He responded well to the surgery and his symptoms, including tremors, slowness, and stiffness, gradually disappeared and his gait improved significantly, the doctors said.Although DBS is not a new surgical procedure, not many opt for it owing to low awareness. Also, the awareness about Parkinson’s disease is very low among patients and general practitioners and often is detected at an advanced stage.