http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/Of-stars-and-sons/article13988538.ece

Shahrukh’s suggestion that his toddler AbRam and Amitabh’s granddaughter Aaradhya would make a great on-screen pair was probably an off the cuff reply just to escape rating contemporary couples whose chemistry sizzles. It was amusing as was Amitabh’s enthusiastic tweet in response. I wouldn’t be surprised if Karan Johar called up the respective parents and offered sizeable advances. After all it’s all about family! Don’t smirk because if I remember right Subhash Ghai promised to launch Tiger Shroff even before he was potty trained! Child marriages are illegal, not proposed on-screen romances in the distant future.Dynastic rule is not uncommon in our country, be it in politics, business or cinema. The surname is the most valuable inheritance. It’s a legacy that not only opens doors but also lays out the red carpet. The entry is relatively effortless but the path is perilous. More star kids have perished, outweighed by the looming shadows of their more successful parents and more oft buckling under the constant comparison making them seem grossly inadequate. It’s unfair but that’s the way the ruthless industry works. There are more people waiting for you to falter and fall than rise and soar. If Shahrukh’s success is unique, it’s because he shone and continues to do so sans a recognisable surname which will be AbRam’s calling card and curse depending on how he fares.I think it’s a tough decision for the star kid too. Take Shivraj Kumar for example. He must have contemplated carefully before confessing his choice of career to his parents. I’m sure he broke out into cold sweat in sweltering Madras fearing failure. Imagine disappointing the fans of a father who’s nothing less than a legend. “I didn’t mind when he told us his plans. My only advice was that he should be well trained and equipped,” Rajkumar had said on a quiet afternoon at his Trust Puram residence. Shivanna learnt Kathakali, trained with stunt masters and for acting his father instructed him to visit wherever Kamal was shooting and watch him. Rajkumar’s favourite director at that time Singeetham Srinivas Rao was given the onerous task of designing a debut vehicle. Shivanna passed the box-office barrier effortlessly and has lasted three decades carving a niche for himself. Raj was disappointed with his second son Raganna though. “I definitely wanted one son not only to be educated but to become a doctor,” the man had said as softly as ever, after his second son quit MBBS midway and decided to don grease paint. Time has flown. After Puneet, it’s the great man’s grandson Vinay introduced in haste, who’ll try to hold the family flag flying high.For every star son who’s made it there are many who’ve fizzled . A classic case is Abhishek Bachchan who’s definitely not a bad actor. In Hindi cinema, my favourite star son is Rishi Kapoor who I feel is the most talented in the family. Genetics is working because his son Ranbir is a terrific actor too. Among the few who’ve outshone their parents would be Hrithik Roshan and Suriya in Tamil. There’s Kareena Kapoor who’s terrific when compared to her parents. “Genes have nothing to do with acting. My father was a lawyer,” says Kamal and his own daughter is proof of that. She has shown stray promise in ‘3’ and ‘Srimanthudu’ but lacks the dedication and professionalism of both her parents. Twinkle Khanna and Eesha Deol who’ve inherited neither looks nor talent. I think Telugu cinema has the best succession and success rate among star sons. The sons of yesteryear stalwarts NTR, Nageshwara Rao and Krishna, Balakrishna, Nagarjuna and Mahesh Babu are superstars in their own right. It’s trickled down to the third generation with Junior NTR, Naga Chaitanya and Akhil. Prabhas, a star even before ‘Bahubali’, is Krishnam Raju’s nephew. There’s Ram Charan Teja struggling with Chiranjeevi’s demigod status and his immensely talented cousin, Allu Arjun. In Malayalam, while Mohanlal’s son has safely chosen to wield the megaphone, Mammooty’s son Dulquer delights with his casual performances. The immensely talented Fahad Fazil’s father has directed some memorable films and incidentally Lal’s debut effort also, ‘Manjil Virinja Pookal’. The most successful star in 2015, Prithviraj’s father is Sukumaran, a recognised actor in his own right.The grandsons of Sivaji Ganesan and Muthuraman are struggling on the slippery slopes of success. Tamil fans are disappointed that the two stars who’ve ruled the industry for decades Rajni and Kamal are bereft of male successors. If you want to play matchmaker amongst the toddlers then you could plan a film with Lingaa, Rajni’s grandson, also Dhanush’s son and Diya, Suriya’s daughter. I hope Shiva Kumar, Diya’s grandfather tweets in agreement. The brutal truth is one can inherit name but not always the fame!sshivu@yahoo.com