http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Officials-told-to-distribute-title-deeds-faster/article13985156.ece

Vinay Kumar Sorake, Urban Development Minister, on Wednesday expressed his dissatisfaction with the slow pace of distribution of title deeds for land regularisation in rural areas under Section 94C of the Karnataka Land Revenue Act.He was speaking after inaugurating the Janasamparka Sabhe or mass contact programme organised by the district administration here.The certificates under Madilu and Bhagyalakshmi schemes were also distributed to the beneficiaries on the occasion.Mr. Sorake said that the pace was particularly slow in Karkala taluk when compared to other two taluks in the district. Only 30 persons had got title deeds under it.The land regularisation process under Section 94C was faster in Dakshina Kannada when compared to Udupi district.The district administration should take steps to expedite process of giving title deeds by January 10. The Udyog (employment) Mela organised in Dakshina Kannada district was successful. Such an Udyog Mela would also be held in Udupi district. This would help the unemployed youth to get jobs.The K. Kasturirangan Panel’s Report on Conservation of Western Ghats had created fear of eviction in the minds of people living on the border areas of Western Ghats. The opinion of these people had already been collected in the district.The State Cabinet had already decided to recommend to the Centre to reduce the area of Ecologically Sensitive Zone from 10 kilometres to one kilometre.He would urge the Minister for Forests and Environment B. Ramanath Rai to pursue the matter with the Union government.The Public Works Department had taken up 52 works in Karkala taluk at a cost of Rs. 58.82 crore. As many as 29 works at a cost of Rs. 35 crore had been taken up by the Minor Irrigation Department, while works of Rs. 21 crore had been taken up under the Namma Grama Namma Raste scheme.Of the 168 assurances given by the State government, it had already fulfilled 105.Sunil Kumar, Karkala MLA, Savita S. Kotian, president of zilla panchayat, Rahmat Sheikh, president of Karkala Town Municipal Council, Vijaya Kumari, President of Karkala Taluk Panchayat, R. Vishal, Deputy Commissioner, Priyanka Mary Francis, CEO of zilla panchayat, were present.Minister saysonly 30 persons have got deedsin Karkala talukso far