http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Officers-emphasise-on-road-safety-rules/article13983318.ece

Traffic issues dominated an interaction programme organised by the Udupi Zilla Vartakara Hitarakshna Vedike here on Tuesday.To a question by Prakash P. on people not following speed limits in the city, a trader, Vishwanath Naik, officer from Regional Transport office, said that the speed limit of vehicles on main streets of the city was 20 km an hour. “Some do not follow it. While fines have been imposed on some, it is not possible to have a vehicle inspector at every 10 metre distance. All vehicles will have to overtake other vehicles from the right side even on four-lane roads,” he said.Santosh Kumar, Additional Superintendent of Police, said that many people knew traffic rules, but broke them because of their careless attitude. Even though people knew it was wrong to talk on mobile telephones while driving, they continued to do so. Students needed to be given training on road safety in schools and colleges, he said.When Sunanda Koteyar pointed out that city buses were not standing close to the platform at the Tiger Circle in Manipal, Mr. Naik said that the Regional Transport Office had taken action and fined some buses. However, if a specific complaint was given, action would be taken against the bus.It was not possible to monitor it all the time as the RTO had staff shortage. Of the six posts of vehicle inspectors sanctioned 20 years, only four had been filled, he said.When Anees, a trader, said that mobile carts selling wares were blocking roads at Service Bus Stand, Chandra Poojary, officer of Udupi City Municipal Council (CMC), said that action would be taken against them.When Veena Deepak suggested putting up rumbling stripes near Triveni Circle so that vehicles slowed down and pedestrians could cross the road, Mr. Naik said that the police normally put up barricades to control traffic.To a question, Mr. Naik said that some vegetable shopkeepers were keeping their crates on the footpaths at Diana Circle and this was making it difficult for students attending a coaching institute there.They were forced to walk on the roads. Despite warnings, this was going on. Shopkeepers should realise that footpaths were meant for pedestrians, he said.Narendra Pai, vedike president; and Dolphy Victor, Louis, office-bearers, were present.