http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/On-the-wrong-track/article13995105.ece

Several passengers who were supposed to travel in the Malabar Express from Thiruvananthapuram to Mangaluru last Wednesday were taken by surprise when they reached the Central station. The display boards had not listed the train which usually starts from the station. To their shock, the personnel at the information desk told them that the train will be starting from Kochuveli station henceforth.Though the change in station was published through the media, the SMS that the passengers had got from IRCTC had mentioned the starting point as Thiruvananthapuram Central. Many who reached the station at the last minute were seen rushing to Kochuveli in autorickshaws. A few of them managed to catch the train as the departure was delayed by about 15 minutes. But several others were not so lucky.Having overcome hurdles to almost complete the widening of the first reach of the Karamana-Kaliyikkavila stretch of NH-66, officials are now pondering ways to tackle the issues pertaining to the second reach from Pravachambalam to Vazhimukku.The project was launched amidst fanfare by the UDF government in October 2014. At the time of the launch, the Chief Minister had said the work on the second phase would begin before the completion of the initial phase. The promise was too good to be true. The daunting task of acquiring the land required for widening the second reach moved at a snail’s pace. While the process was completed for the Pravachambalam-Balaramapuram stretch, a lot needed to be done for the remaining portion. In addition, the opposition raised by traders in the Balaramapuram town has created much headache for the authorities.An official said the possibility of the second phase activities getting under way in the near future appeared bleak, particularly with Assembly elections round the corner. Moreover, the delay in sanctioning the required funds was being attributed to discontent among certain legislators towards allocating large amounts for development projects in a single constituency.The Kerala Water Authority (KWA) has completed pressure test on a small portion of the pipeline it laid beneath the Thakaraparambu flyover, paving the way for construction of service roads. The KWA, which took up the work with financial assistance from the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), handed over the stretch from Parthas to Amayizhanchan canal for road works on January 10. The water utility will try to complete pipeline laying work towards Thakaraparambu within a few days.The work of laying cast iron pipes, having diameter of 800 metres, as part of the JICA-assisted water supply project, was scheduled to be completed on January 4. The delay in completing the work has affected the other works. Health Minister V.S. Sivakumar had directed the KWA to complete the work before January 9.(Reporting byS.R. Praveen,Sarath Babu George, and Rajesh B. Nair)