http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/On-a-quest-to-find-vaccine-to-common-infections/article14009436.ece

oot and mouth disease, avian flu, Ebola virus and many more… periodically, people get a rude awakening to the potential threats from diseases spreading from animals to humans. Despite advances in scientific research, the spread of diseases and growing resistance to antibiotics have always posed a challenge and the threat is pertinent to new forms as well.‘One Health’ worldwide as a concept has gained acceptance, meaning humans and animals should not be looked at as separate entities since bacteria carries infections and animals are primary carriers and reservoirs, points out J. Gowrishankar, Director In-Charge of National Institute of Animal Biotechnology (NIAB).The NIAB came to the capital three years ago when the then State government had offered a huge tract of land inside the University of Hyderabad (UoH). The crucial part of its vision is to produce globally competitive livestock products, pharmaceuticals and biologicals for animal health care.An autonomous institute of the Department of Biotechnology under the Union Ministry of Science and Technology, it came into being when it was realised that our own ecosystem has its own form of animal infections and diseases causing a big dent in the animal husbandry world affecting poultry, cattle, sheep and goat, thereby the farming community other than the threat to humans.The need for effective and cheap vaccines as well as quick diagnostic kits was being acutely felt and a motley group of scientists, including Girish Radhakrishnan, Madhuri Subbiah, Anand Srivastava, Paresh Sharma, Abhijit Deshmukh, Syed Faisal and others, have been working on understanding diseases like Brucellosis, Newcastle Disease Virus (NDV), Theileriosis, Toxoplasmosis, Leptospirosis, etc. “These are highly contagious with high mortality rate or directly affecting the milk and meat production among farm and domestic animals which could cause commercial loss to farmers. They can also cause fatal infections to humans,” the scientists point out.Ground for NIAB was actually laid by P. Reddanna of School of Life Sciences, UoH. He was also the founder director when the mandate for research was drawn, says Dr. Gowrishankar, also the staff scientist, Centre for DNA Fingerprinting and Diagnostics (CDFD), currently overseeing the research work.Current facilityNIAB’s interim facility at Miyapur was inaugurated in September 2014 which includes two main labs, bioinformatics facility, stem cell, mammalian cell and microbial culture facilities, genome manipulation facility, centralised instrumentation facility having ultra/high speed centrifuges, microplate reader, flow cytometer, etc., spread across 23,000 sq. ft.Permanent campusThe institute has been sanctioned 100 acres within the campus of the University of Hyderabad and for now, a boundary wall has been constructed securing the property.The construction of other buildings is in the tendering stage. The sprawling facility is likely to have main research lab complex, animal house and hostels which could be built on five to 10 acres, 80 acres would be for animal farms and other infrastructure. The lab which received funding of Rs. 200 crore is seeking further grants from the Department of Biotechnology.“We are hoping to move into our permanent campus within two-and-a-half years where we will have two lakh square feet space catering to 40 scientists working full time,” explains Dr. Gowrishankar.‘The diseases that affect animals can also cause fatal infections to humans’