http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/On-judging-and-being-judged/article14017079.ece

ome things are predictable at the State School Arts Festival. Such as controversies regarding the judging of classical dances, the most glamorous of all the 200-odd events.There have been plenty of them at the 56th edition of the Festival, too. The Mohiniyattam competitions were disrupted due to protests by dance teachers and parents questioning the integrity and the qualification of the judging panel. The police had to step in to ensure that the competition finally went ahead, albeit hours behind schedule.“The All Kerala Dance Teachers Association decided to protest against the judges because the dance competitions had reached such a stage that most of the prizes were won by bribing some of the judges,” alleged Girija Chandran, the association’s secretary. “There are participants who have bribed their way right from the sub-district level.”‘Every effort taken’The Director of Public Instruction M.S. Jaya said a decision was taken not to appoint judges against whom there were serious allegations. “We have taken every effort to bring the best judges possible,” she told The Hindu on Saturday. “We are looking into all the complaints that we have received against the judges.”She said the Directorate had also sought the help of the Vigilance Department to get information about the judges who were accused of being corrupt. “We are trying to make the process of judging as fair as possible,” she said.“I feel we could begin the process of selecting the judges a bit earlier.”It is a fact that there have been attempts for years to influence the judges. It is not just the money that talks at the festivals. There is also pressure on judges from their gurus, whose disciples could be participating.And it may not be an easy task to find judges who have no such connections. But, the Festival authorities have to find sincere judges, to ensure that none of the 12,000 participants is denied justice.