http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/On-Day-4-parents-applying-under-EWS-category-left-perplexed/article13981262.ece

It has been four days since nursery admissions began in the Capital, but confusion still prevails among those applying under the Economically Weaker Section (EWS) category — which have gone online for the first time.Admissions under the EWS category are being done online for schools recognised under the Delhi School Education Act and Rules (DSEAR), 1973.The process remains offline for schools recognised under the Right to Education (RTE) Act, 2009.As many as 418 schools are accepting offline admissions, but since there is no list notifying the same, parents are left confused.In fact, many parents are facing problems with the software developed by the Directorate of Education (DoE).Further, the site crashed a few time on the first day of the admissions. Sources at the DoE said that the government is working on the issues in the software and would make an announcement in this regard soon.Akriti Gupta, who is applying for her daughter under the EWS category, said: “There is so much confusion in this category. Some schools are taking forms online, some are taking forms offline. So far I have been able to apply to just two schools for my daughter through the online process, but I don’t thing that is enough because the number is seats is limited. I have no idea which schools are accepting offline forms. I will have to go to some schools,” said Ms. Gupta.Experts, meanwhile, say that parents should not fill forms in haste as they have time till January 15.“There is no need to panic. If the government is working on something, then the parents should wait for at least two to three days,” said Sumit Vohra, who runs a portal on nursery admission.Mr. Vohra has also set up a help desk at P.P. International School in Pitampura for parents of wards under the EWS category.Though the government had said that they will make things easier for people in the slums by deputing NGOs to help them, the move does not seem to be of much help. Parents also said that cyber cafes are charging a lot for filling up forms for them.