http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Madurai/On-Campus/article13993917.ece

Easy way to EnglishSt. Antony’s College of Arts and Sciences for Women, Tamaraipadi, Dindigul, conducted a five-day course, ‘Easy way to English’ from January 4. It was inaugurated by Rev. Sr. Margaret Inbaseeli, secretary. The Principal (in charge), Rev. Sr. Mary Premila Santhi, delivered the presidential address and R. Manoharan offered felicitations. The resource persons for the course were Dr. Manoharan, N. Lakshmipriya of GTN College, M. Petha Vanna Arasu of Government Higher Secondary School, Ayyalur, John Britto of SSA, P. Vijay of Anaipatti, K. Ravichandran of Government Higher Secondary School, Pannaikadu, and P. Jeyapriya of Mother Teresa Women’s University, Kodaikanal. The topics discussed at the course included ‘Life with English,’ ‘Emerging trends in modern grammar,’ ‘Vocabulary’ and ‘Phonetics.’ Dr. Jeyapriya delivered the valedictory address.Lecture on legendThe Department of Mathematics of E. M. Gopalakrishna Kone Yadava Women’s College, Madurai, observed the birth anniversary of Srinivasa Ramanujan with a lecture on ‘Ramanujan, the legend of mathematics’ by A. Selvam, Associate Professor, VHNSN College, Virudhunagar on December 23. R. Mangayarkarasi welcomed the gathering. Students of mathematics participated in events such as paper presentation, Rangoli, mathematics modelling, quiz, connector, puzzles and problem solving organised to mark the anniversary. G. Jeyalakshmi, Head, Department of Mathematics, delivered the valedictory address. D. Selvamathi, Assistant Professor, proposed a vote of thanks.Fine Arts 2015The N.M.S. Sermathai Vasan College for Women, Madurai, conducted ‘Fine Arts 2015,’ a cultural festival for students, on December 29 and 30. It was inaugurated by V. Indhumathi, Joint Director of Collegiate Education. Principal D. Karthigarani presided over the inaugural session.Various events such as classical dance, folk dance, light music, hair do, pot painting, face painting, group song, cookery, and debate were conducted at the event. Mohanan, Director, Indira Gandhi National Open University, distributed prizes to the winners at the valedictory session.The overall shield was won by the Department of Mathematics and the runner-up shield went to the Department of English.On teaching HindiThe Department of Hindi of Ayya Nadar Janaki Ammal College, Sivakasi, conducted a national-level workshop on ‘Teaching Hindi language and literature through modern techniques’ on December 27. V. Pandiyarajan, Principal, delivered the presidential address at the inaugural session. Seventy-five Hindi teachers from various schools participated in the workshop. S. Shabbeer Basha, Head, Department of Hindi, Sri Bhagavan Mahaveer Jain College, KGF, handled the session on ‘Teaching Hindi grammar.’ The coordinator, Directorate of Distance Education, Madurai Kamaraj University, M.V. Subburaman, chaired the session on ‘Teaching Hindi poetry.’ K. Vijaya Bhaskar Naidu, Head, Department of Hindi, ANJAC, spoke on ‘ICT-enabled teaching.’ M.S. Sadhasivan, president, Sivakasi Hindi Teachers’ Association, delivered the valedictory address. M.R.J. Gnaneswaran, Assistant Professor of Hindi, proposed a vote of thanks.Workshop on career prospectsResearch Centre in Commerce of Standard Fireworks Rajaratnam College for Women, Sivakasi, organised a workshop on ‘Career prospects for commerce graduates’ on December 15.The resource persons, A. Bernard Chandra, former Professor, and G. Sahaya Antony Xavier of St. Xavier’s College, Palayamkottai, delivered lectures on career prospects, strategies to develop winning personality, communication skills and tips to appear for interviews.The presidential address was delivered by K. Rajeswari, Head, Department of Commerce. M. Uma Rani, Associate Professor, welcomed the gathering.The Department of Mathematics of the college organised Srinivasa Ramanujan Day celebration with a State-level programme on December 16. C. Ganesan of Department of Mathematics, VHNSN College, Virudhunagar, delivered a lecture on ‘Applications of mathematics in engineering’ in which he explained the concepts of signal processing and image processing. Quiz programme, pencil drawing and paper presentation contests were conducted for 393 mathematics students from 10 colleges.The programme was inaugurated by P. Subbulakshmi, Head, Department of Mathematics. S. Meenakshi, Associate Professor, welcomed the gathering.Elocution contestNational Service Scheme units of Sri Kaliswari College, Sivakasi, organised an elocution competition on ‘Patriotism and nation building’ on December 19 in which 20 students participated. M. Dhivya of I M.A. (English), Athipathy Kamesh of I B.Com. and Ajay of III B.Sc. (Mathematics) were selected for the district-level competition.Eves’ FestArasan Ganesan Polytechnic College, Sivakasi, conducted Eves’ Fest, an inter-polytechnic cultural programme, on December 19 in which nine colleges took part in several competitions.The programme was inaugurated by Archana Karthik. Brindha J. Ragavan, correspondent, Renganayaki Varadharaj Engineering College, delivered the valedictory address.The principal, M. Nandhakumar, presided over the function. The Rajeswari Vijayakumar Trophy was won by Ayya Nadar Janaki Ammal Polytechnic College and the Talentia Award was bagged by Ambikapathi of the same college. R. Maria Michael Antonyammal proposed a vote of thanks.Tiruppavai festivalSeveral competitions, including recitation and fancy dress, were conducted for students to mark the Tiruppavai festival organised at Linga Global School in Srivilliputtur recently.The festival was inaugurated by K. Sridharan, Chancellor, Kalasalingam University. Prizes were distributed to the winners by Sasi Anand, Director.Alka Sharma, Principal, presided over the celebration.