http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/On-your-mark-go/article14026757.ece

The Wipro Chennai Marathon (TWCM) is upon us. Originally scheduled for December 13 last year, the event was postponed due to the Chennai floods. The marathon is now all set to pay tribute to the spirit of Chennai on January 31 (Sunday). With 16,000 registered runners, this will be a big one.The full and half-marathon events will be flagged off outside the Kasturba Nagar MRTS station at 4 and 4.30 a.m., while the 10-km run will begin at the Napier Bridge at 7 a.m.. The Run for Fun event for a group of special children will begin at the Kasturba Nagar MRTS at 7 a.m. All runners will finish their race at the Central Polytechnic College ground in Taramani and will be awarded finisher medals.Here is a brief set of instructions for runnersRemember to affix the timing chip to the back of your bib, and wear your bib prominently on the front of your T-shirt.Report at least half-an-hour before the start of the race to your respective station. Traffic restrictions apply all along the race routes, so do plan accordingly.Line up only in the start-up corral assigned to you — look for the letter A-F on the top left hand corner of your bib.Your timing is automatically recorded by mats placed on the road in several places. Stick to the marked route to ensure that you pass all mats.Be considerate to others — don’t walk in large groups, don’t crowd at aid stations or at medal counters; there is enough for everyone.Please dispose of trash in the trash cans provided after every aid station.If you feel uncomfortable, dizzy or disoriented, please inform a volunteer.We are excited to showcase Namma Chennai to the runners: the race route passes through Madhya Kailash, Adyar flyover, MRC Nagar, Santhome, Marina, and the War Memorial. An army of volunteers is en route at 12 aid stations — serving water, sports drinks and fruits — along with route marshals, photographers, physiotherapists (for medical aid).The finish point at CPT grounds is where families and friends will catch up with runners. Breakfast counters serving hot food, selfie stations, and lot of fun-filled activities will be held. With a purse of Rs. 15 lakh spread across 36 podium positions, the fast runners will be awarded cash prizes and other goodies from partners here as well.The team has put their heart and soul into TWCM; especially with the rescheduling, it has been backbreaking work, putting together all the pieces again. The participants have also trained long and hard to be able to run these distances. If you are not running, do join us as a spectator or a well-wisher. Stand on the side of the road at the Marina Beach and cheer.Pass on water to tired runners in Besant Nagar. Stand at Santhome and encourage a weary runner or two. Walk to the CPT grounds at the finish. Click photographs. Write to us. Assure us that you will walk alongside us as we put together the biggest running event in the history of this unbelievably resilient and incredibly awesome city.For runnersFull Marathon: Starts at 4 a.m. from Kasturba Nagar MRTS, OMRHalf Marathon: Starts at 4.30 a.m. from Kasturba Nagar MRTS, OMR10 km: Starts at 7 a.m.from Napier BridgeRun for Fun: Starts at 7 a.m.from Kasturba Nagar MRTS, OMR(Only for registered runners with Bibs)For spectators and othersThe Marina and Besant Nagar beaches are ideal spots to view and cheer runners.Remember traffic restrictions apply in all areas along the race route from Sunday 3 a.m. to 9 a.m.How it has grownTWCM 2012 — 6,500 runnersTWCM 2013 —10,000 runnersTWCM 2014 —12,500 runnersTWCM2015(Being held in 2016 due to #ChennaiFloods) — 16,000 runners expected