http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/One-simple-change/article14003227.ece

Nutrition can be complicated at times. Eat this, don’t eat that, this is a super food, that has too much sugar… But did you know that there is ONE simple change that will get you most of the way?Reduce your starch consumption.It is the one change that will fix most of your aesthetic and health woes. Let me explain.The Indian diet is dominated by, and in many ways dependent on, starch. We eat starch in every meal and snack. Starch, in our cuisine, is basically the vehicle that gets everything else into the system. Vegetables (which are abundant in nutrients) are consumed with rice or roti.Coconut in the form of chutney and lentils and turmeric in the form of sambar are consumed along with dosai, idli, rice or some other form of starch. In fact, if you remove all kinds of starch from the Indian diet, we’re not left with much to make sustainable meals. For this reason, going for very low-carb diets or giving up starch completely is not sustainable, and hence, not recommended. But I’m sure a lot of you already know that. But the other extreme, which is where a lot of us are, is not good either. If you picked any normal person from the street and did a nutritional breakdown of what she/he ate in the last 24 hours, you’ll see that 60 to 90 per cent of their calories come from carbohydrates. While our tropical starchy vegetables are a small reason for this, the larger and more relevant reasons are excessive consumption of starch and frequent consumption of sugar.This is the first problem with the traditional way of eating. You might also find it interesting to note that a high-carb diet is related to high triglycerides in a person’s lipid profile. And the other problem is that almost all our starch sources come with empty calories. That is, they provide your body with not much more than just energy (calories). So a typical meal of rice, sambar, poriyal, rice, curd and pickle or roti, daal, subzi provides you with mostly carbohydrates (which are very quickly converted into sugar in your body) and with very little protein, vitamins and minerals. So what happens when you reduce starch? Firstly, you stop loading your body up with sugar. Remember, all forms of starch also get converted into sugar sooner or later. This will help bring your blood sugar under control. Secondly, since your body is spared the sugar spike, it will also not need to secrete as much insulin as it did earlier. Fat storage being a part of insulin’s job description, you’ll find yourself not gaining weight and, with enough activity and sleep, starting to lose fat easily. Thirdly, reducing starch will make you hungry, purely because you are now eating lesser food. This is where you get smart and use protein and vegetables (things that you get very little of) to fill that gap. That is, pull some starch off your plate and add some more vegetables and protein: be it eggs, paneer, meat or curd.By doing this, you are consuming fewer calories but nourishing your body with more nutrients and hence improving your health — higher immunity, better skin and hair, denser bones, reduced gut issues and better heart health.To summarise, the one change that will give you the most bang for your buck is reducing your starch content and replacing it with some form of protein and vegetables. If you can do that consistently, you can rest assured that you will lose fat, improve your lipid profile, reduce your blood sugar levels and naturally end up consuming more nutrients.