http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/fashion/One-click-to-the-perfect-pout/article14026775.ece

Online shopping is all the rage, and you can’t but see the appeal. Sitting at home in your PJs and sipping hot chocolate can make shopping a lot less stressful than braving crowds and trial rooms — however, when it comes to makeup and skincare, it’s a different ballgame. So, here are some easy little ways to make online skincare and makeup shopping easier.Know your skinA little self-inspection is always a good thing and knowledge is key. When it comes to skincare, I have a list of ingredients I know don’t suit my skin. Similarly, I’m pretty aware of my skin type and what works for it — making online shopping a lot easier.  As for makeup, a list of your colour matches is always good to have, as well as formulas that suit you and you like. Use those search enginesGoogle is your best friend while searching for makeup. You have tonnes of swatches and reviews literally at your fingertips — but my tip would be to find someone who has a similar skin tone as yours, so you can see what the shade/colour may look like on you. For foundation, I strongly suggest Temptalia’s Foundation Matrix, which has an in-depth analysis of what foundation will work for you in every brand, based on your existing foundation colour. (For example, I use an NC 42 in MAC foundations; once I put that into the matrix, it gives me my colour matches in other brands — such as Syracuse in NARS foundations.)Instagram is another very useful tool when buying online. Not only do most companies provide swatches of their products on various skin tones, they also give you mini reviews for you to decide if you would like it or not.  The same can be said for Pinterest, Reddit and YouTube.While we are on the topic, always do your homework. Beauty blogs, YouTube reviews or even just regular reviews on websites are excellent ways to find out how good a product is or not. MakeupAlley is another godsend when it comes to reviews, as various people from different ethnic backgrounds and skin types review products, so you can really be thorough. The websites(A disclaimer — before you buy from international websites, I would say the safest option is a PayPal account.)Now that you know what you want, finding it can be a bit more difficult. For most makeup brands and skincare brands, www.beautybay.com gives you free worldwide shipping and a wide range of products to choose from, such as Too Faced, Mario Badescue and Urban Decay. Cultbeauty.com offers you high-end makeup and skincare, and you can avail free shipping if the bill is over GBP50. They have brands such as Anastasia Beverly Hills, Becca and Pixi. For Asian makeup and skincare products — www.wishtrend.com is an excellent site that offers free shipping on their best-selling products.Strawberrynet.com has brands such as NARS, Bobbi Brown and Kevyn Aucoin, as well as perfumes and skincare on constant discount.If you prefer some American brands such as NYX, LA Splash, Wet n Wild among others,  www.beautyjoint.com has you covered.Apart from these websites, you also have several indie makeup companies that make and sell vegan and cruelty-free makeup on websites like Etsy. These websites will ship directly to you; however, if you still want a good old Sephora haul, I’d suggest portals such as shipito.com.By shopping online, I’ve discovered so many unknown and unique brands (such as Jeffree Star, ColourPop and Makeup Geek) that make better-quality products than most mainstream brands. So use the Internet, explore and have fun — just make sure to apologise to your bank balance and credit card in advance.