http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/One-reader-to-another/article13997446.ece

There are books which you read over a night or two, then talk to your friends about them. There are books that you read over weekends, taking many weeks to finish cover to cover, then calmly put them away on the shelf only to retrieve a year or two later. Then there are books, like the scriptures, which you read, bit by bit, then page by page. Not brimming over with drama on every page, they are more profound, needing careful attention on every word, every line. Together, they make the world of book lovers, a world that has brought alive the ongoing World Book Fair at Pragati Maidan in New Delhi. It is a world one thought existed only in sundry libraries across the city, or occasionally in Metro trains. But here, they are in full public glare, doing what they love to do!Often at well-lit and beautifully decorated book stalls, book lovers crowd around the latest best-seller. Some use their girth to stay ahead, others rise to the tip of their toes to glance at the book the guy in front is reading! Most read the back jacket, some a page or two before deciding to buy the book or otherwise. But this is not quite the place for honest reading or a calm judgement. Too much jostling, too oft there is jostling. Not a sign of peace and quiet. That privilege is reserved for those who pick up a book and head out. Sitting on the well-carpeted staircase or in a little secluded corner behind a hall, they go from page to page, oblivious to the trickle of people passing by. So engrossed are they in the book that they forget too that the book is theirs for keeps!Then there is another kind of reader, the one who does not read without company; the so-called bubblegum crowd. Here the youngsters pick up a book, usually chic-lit, get themselves a packet of popcorn and maybe a little glass of coffee as they sit on the bright lawns of the fair. The guy and gal, read together, making for a pretty picture. They do not eat much, just nibble. They forget to drink too, until at the end when the coffee would have gone cold, they finish it in one gulp! But they do read. Not too far behind in love for literature are those who carry their Kindle with them. Anywhere, anytime, they read whenever the urge overtakes them.Finally, there is one reader who is neither to be found reading in solitude nor in company. Certainly not in a crowd. That is the reader to be found near author’s corner at the book fair.Such a reader usually wants to have the book fresh from the press, waits patiently for the author to finish his session with the assembled few, then heads forward to take his autograph, making sure to remind the author that he reads him regularly, and what a privilege it is to meet him!Such a guy usually heads home a little later, only to open the book as a family present in the evening. The book then decorates the shelf. Some day, it is dusted, read, then placed right back.That then is the world of books and book lovers. Between the pages lies a story. And from one reader to another, lies another.