http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/One-man-music-band-steals-many-hearts/article14021272.ece

He is a one-man band, meeting all the requirements of a full-fledged ensemble. Be it a war scene, beach, city traffic or the countryside, Patnala Potharaju has the perfect background score, all in his mouth.Many a time, theatre managers awaiting music troupes were surprised to find him walk in with a violin. Later, they were awe-struck to find him fulfil all their needs. The 59-year-old musician from Visakhapatnam is the most-sought-after by theatre groups, not just as a cost-saving effort, but in recognition of his commendable talent.Potharaju, who is now here as part of the ongoing Nandi Natakotsavam, spoke to The Hindu on the sidelines of a children’s play, Balidanam , in which he proved his mettle and won many hearts. He efficiently uses his mouth to generate the sounds of Shehnai, trumpet, train, cyclone, birds and animals. He uses an X-ray film to produce the sound of thunderstorm.His lone instrument, the violin, becomes a Sitar or Veena, when the bow is replaced by a striker. He improvises by changing tack. “By beating the violin with a comb, we get the sound of dholak, and for the sound of military drums, I tap violin box with the comb,” he says.Music runs in his blood. He learnt violin from his father Patnala Appalanarayana, who was not only a contemporary of ace singer Ghantasala at the Vizianagaram Music College, but also a disciple of noted musician Dwaram Venkataswamy Naidu.Thanks to his dexterity in handling violin, mandolin, guitar, tabla and dholak, Potharaju plays background music for Harikatha and Bharatanatyam performances. Potharaju seldom sits on the stage, but in the green room, away from public view.“Playback singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam was surprised to find me perform the role of a full troupe at an event organised by Kalabharathi in Vizag last May,” he recalls.Playback singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam was surprised to find me perform the role of a full troupe at an event in Vizag last May.Potharaju