http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Ongoing-civil-works-to-be-completed-in-about-three-months/article14020572.ece

The Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) has assured the residents that all the ongoing civil works in the city would be completed in two to three months.Motorists in the city are already braving heavy traffic and taking detours in view of the ongoing works at Hardinge Circle, Chamaraja Double Road, Nelson Mandela Road and the stretch of Bengaluru-Nilgiri Road between Hardinge Circle and Chatrimara Junction.The latest addition to the civil works is the laying of a fresh coat of asphalt on D Devaraj Urs Road, which began on Monday.MCC Commissioner C. G. Betsurmath said the construction of the grand tower or mantap within which the marble-sized statue of the last ruler of Mysuru will be placed is almost ready.“The tower is almost ready. It should not take more than two weeks for the finishing works to be completed. The statue is also ready”, he told The Hindu.Though the works started in June last year, Mr. Betsurmath said the construction of the dome consumed a lot of time. Similarly, he said the repair of Under Ground Drainage (UGD) on Bengaluru-Nilgiri Road will be completed in two weeks.Unlike the alternative routes provided for commuters using Hardinge Circle and Bengaluru-Nilgiri Road, no detours had been identified by the traffic police for the work taken up at Nelson Mandela Road, forcing the motorists to use the narrow lanes of Bannimantap. This caused traffic pile-up in the area.The PWD has taken up the work of reconstruction of 7.6 k.m. of road in the heart of the city, comprising Albert Victor Road, Chamaraja Double Road, Sayyaji Rao Road, Hardinge Circle to Pathashala Circle and Nelson Mandela Road by laying a concrete top.“People will have to bear with us till the works are completed. If they don’t get good facilities, they will complain. When road improvement works are being taken up, they should cooperate,” said a senior PWD official.Mr. Betsurmath said the MCC had taken up asphalting of D Devaraj Urs Road as part of the beautification works to commemorate the late Chief Minister’s birth centenary. “We will be giving an aesthetic look to the road by repairing the pavements and the junctions … Once all the works are completed in about two to three months time, motorists will enjoy their drive in the city”, he added.