http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Online-facility-for-mutation-of-property-launched/article13976480.ece

Revenue Minister Adoor Prakash on Friday inaugurated the online facility for mutation of property in Kollam.Mutation of property or ‘pokkuvaravu’ is the inclusion of property details in revenue records. Under the first phase of the scheme, the facility will be available in 20 selected village offices in the district.In his inaugural address, the Minister said that by March 31 all villages offices in the district would be covered by the scheme.He said that out of the 1,664 village offices in the State, the government had taken steps to implement the facility in 481. He said that Kollam became the second district in the State to have the facility. The pilot scheme in this connection was launched in Thiruvananthapuram district.Through the facility, mutation of property would be formalised on the very day the registration was done.Four persons in the district became beneficiaries of the new facility on the first day. The Minister said such measures were part of the moves from the government to provide more and more facilities for the people.“The State government is taking steps to implement online facility for payment of all revenue-related taxes.”N.K. Premachandran, MP, who addressed the function said that one of the causes for the delay encountered by people during interactions with the Revenue Department was the continuation of rules and regulations that were not in tune with the needs of the time.Such rules should be modified and coordinated accordingly, he said.More transparencyDistrict Collector A. Shainamol said that the online facility would bring about more transparency to all Revenue Department transactions. Mayor V. Rajendrababu presided. A.A. Azeez, MLA; Assistant Collector S. Chithra; Additional District Magistrate M.A. Rahim; Revenue Divisional Officer M. Vishwnathan; and Chairman of the Kollam Development Authority A.K. Hafeez; spoke.The 20 village offices in the district which have been covered by the online facility for mutation of property are Kollam East; Kollam West; Shakthikulangara; Chirakara; Adichanallur, Thevalakara; Chavara; Karunagapally; Vadakumthala; Thodiyur; Thazhava; Ochira; Alappad; Clappana; Pavumba; Adinad; Pavithreshwaram; Anchal; Pattazhi; and Pattazhi North.The facility has been introduced through the coordinated efforts of the State IT Mission, the National Informatics Centre, the Registration Department and Akshaya.The facility was introduced as part of the Central government’s National Land Records Modernisation Programme.