http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Only-72-of-352-multi-storeyed-buildings-paid-pro-rata-charges-since-2007/article14025860.ece

Many multi-storeyed buildings in the city have not paid the pro rata charges to the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) since 2007. This topic came up for discussion at the MCC meeting held here on Thursday.Cutting across party lines, the Councillors demanded that the Mayor furnish details of the number of multi-storeyed buildings in the city and the number of buildings that have paid the pro rata charges.Replying to the queries, an MCC official said that there were over 352 multi-storeyed buildings and of it only 72 had paid the pro rata charges since 2007. The official further said that efforts were on to collect the pro rata charges from the remaining multi-storeyed building owners.Seeming upset over the version of the official, Councillors Ravindra, Mahadevappa, Nandish Preetham and Sandesh Swamy said that this was one of the main reasons why the MCC had failed to mobilise its resources. The official said that he had joined work only two months ago and that he would take all necessary steps to collect the pending pro rata charges.The Councillors also questioned how the officials concerned provided water and underground drainage connections without collecting the pro rata charges from the building owners. They further urged Mayor B.L. Byrappa to instruct the officials concerned to provide water and underground drainage connections only after the receipt of the pro rata charges.Mr. Swamy and Mr. Preetham said that a large number of high-rise buildings were coming up in the city and that the figure of 352 multi-storeyed buildings must be an old one. They alleged officials’ connivance with the guilty building owners in giving water and UGD connections.The Mayor, after consulting with MCC C.G. Commissioner Bettasurmath, said that he too was suspicious about the numbers. “Let us give one more chance to the officials concerned to conduct a survey of multi-storeyed buildings in the city and place the facts before us in the next council meeting,” the Mayor said.He also instructed the officials to collect the pro rata charges from the owners of multi-storeyed buildings forthwith.“Collect the charges from all the multi-storeyed buildings without any discrimination,” he said.Mr. Byrappa asked the officials to streamline the resource mobilisation task and collect property tax, water cess, and pro rata charges from the owners of the buildings within the jurisdiction of the MCC.‘Notices to defaulters’Mr. Bettasurmath said that he has directed the officials of the Town Planning Department to issue notices to those owners of multi-storeyed buildings who have not paid the pro rata charges.The MCC Commissioner said that he has asked the officials to collect the pro rata charges from the owners at the earliest. He has also asked the officials to conduct a ward-wise survey of multi-storeyed buildings and fix the pro rata charges based on various factors, including the measurement of the building.