http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/Online-EWS-admissions-fails-to-click/article13996322.ece

The Delhi government’s “ambitious” idea of making nursery admissions hassle-free for the Economically Weaker Section (EWS) by shifting the procedure online does not seem to be working well, a status check by The Hindu has revealed.According to the Internet and Mobile Association of India (IMAI), just 60 per cent of 1.83 crore people residing in the Capital use the Internet, with the number of web users much lower in the underprivileged category.A visit to areas with EWS population revealed a lack of awareness among people seeking nursery admissions for their wards. Also, there is little or no help from volunteers meant for this.In Northeast Delhi’s Gokulpuri, nobody seemed to have any idea about the online admission process for nursery admissions.Sameer Kumar, a resident of a Gokulpuri slum cluster, said: “I want my son to study in a good private school, but don’t know how to go about it. I know there is quota for people like us who cannot pay much for our children’s education, but I don’t know how to avail that quota.”When asked if a volunteer from an NGO or someone from the government had visited their locality to inform them of the new process, Mr. Kumar added: “Who will visit us here? Is there any helpline number that I can call? I am not educated enough to use the Internet?”There are about 2,400 schools in Delhi and 25 per cent of the total seats are reserved under the EWS quota. Of these, only 1,150 are accepting online admission for the EWS category this year. According to an estimate, close to 26,000 admissions took place under the EWS category in 2015.Another woman living in East Delhi’s Shahdara said: “We don’t know how to apply in schools that accept the quota. The schools near our house do not have an EWS quota. I think, we will have to send our children to the local school.”Residents of a slum cluster in New Delhi area too do not fare any better.Kajal Pandey of Vivekanand camp in Chanakyapuri said: “There are many good private schools near our locality and I want my three-year-old son to go to one of them, but I don’t know how to go about it.”There are some camps being run by private organisations to help people understand the process. One such camp is being run by an NGO in Sunder Nagri in Northeast Delhi.Rajeev, one of the volunteers at the camp, said: “Many people who are unaware of the admission procedure are coming to us. However, we are not able to reach out to the others. I think the government has taken a huge risk by making the procedure completely online, as it has caused more inconvenience to the people.”The government maintained that the idea of making EWS admissions online is working, with some hiccups. Delhi government Education Advisor Atishi Marlena said: “When a new system is introduced, it takes time in order to penetrate a larger population. We have been taking all efforts to make it work by taking the help of NGOs and local MLAs to create a better outreach.”She added that the Delhi government will try to improve the system from here on, but will not think of a roll-back due to the initial hiccups. According to the Directorate of Education, it received 9,000 online EWS admission applications in the first week of January.