http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Vijayawada/Organic-farming-to-get-a-push/article14001088.ece

The State government has chalked out plans to promote organic and traditional methods of farming in a big way to make the agriculture more viable and profitable.The government also plans to promote cooperative farming so as to ensure that bank linkages are easy.Taking a cue from a report from the UN Commission on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), the government has devised plans to ‘promote agro ecology’ in the State.As part of it, the government will impart training to 5,000 farmers selected across the State for eight days at Kakinada starting from January 24. Subhash Palekar, who is advocating zero budget farming, will impart the training.Special Chief Secretary (Agriculture) T. Vijay Kumar said that farmers were selected for training from 10 clusters in each district. They would in turn train the farmers in their village or cluster or region.As many as1.5 lakh farmers would be trained in organic and traditional farming methods in next three years. The objective was to bring down the farming expenditure to half of the present. It could be achieved by reducing use of fertilizer and other inputs, he said adding, “the training session will emphasise the need to return to (and develop) a more sustainable, natural, and organic system.”“Food security is going to be a challenge if shrinking agricultural lands and ongoing practices are to be considered. The soil enrichment programme should top the agenda as productive capacity is declining. These transformative changes are necessary in our food, agriculture and trade systems to support the farmers,” he said.The Self-Help Groups (SHG) model was successful as far as bank lending was concerned. So, the farmers’ groups on lines of the SHGs would be encouraged to provide bank linkages.The groups would be liable for borrowing and repayment of the loans.It culminates into encouraging cooperative farming. Forward linkages with organic firms for purchase of farmers’ produce would also be provided, he said.Mr. Vijay Kumar was in the city on Wednesday to address a seminar on ‘state credit’ organised by the NABARD.