http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Organic-route-gets-shorter/article14012106.ece

When a film director says, the story of his movie is organic, we sit up and lend our ears. When a designer says his idea is organic he attracts attention, but when a farmer mentions organic and quotes a premium price, reactions aren’t quite the same. But instead of having a debate for and against a farmer, let’s just look at how organic food is slowly but steadily and consciously making its way into our lives for a good reason. Don’t quite agree?Well, look at the craze during the mango season gone by. How many of us would do anything to lay our hands on a basket of farm fresh mangoes, which are pesticide free? In fact the term pesticide-free itself is a big winner with many health-conscious eaters.And making this possible are small and big growers. To develop the use of organic products into a habit and promote healthy living, some brands like Sunrise Organics are making home deliveries but that seems to help them meet only 25 percent of the target. But are they complaining? Seems not, because this is one delivery system of fresh organic produce that’s willing to deliver even 500 gm of any vegetable. “It is about changing one’s lifestyle and promoting something more valuable for our health and nature. So we are willing to go that extra mile if any customer wants anything from us,” says a spokesperson from Sunrise Organics.When news of the North-eastern state Sikkim turning 100 percent organic made headlines, it was a pleasant surprise for everyone and an effort that received much appreciation.But do we know that a village at a distance of 100 km from Hyderabad has been fully organic for the past couple of years? Enabhavi is an ‘organic village’ and it took many years and efforts by its farmers to come to this decision and reap its fruits.Food scientist and activist, G. Ramanjaneylu says the hurdles are faced only initially. Once the farmers see the health of the soil, they are ready to bid goodbye to pesticides. And some of the produce he speaks of can be procured from Sahaja Aharam at Tarnaka.Regulars of pesticide-free food are aware of the addresses that they need to go to stock their stuff. The Sunday bazaar (or Aadivaram Angadi as its called) at Our Sacred Space has become synonymous with everything organic — bags and soaps and even ready to eat options to grab a bite in one’s early steps towards the organic world. When Shyam Penubolu of Jiva Organics is asked whether it is the consumer or the grower who can promote organic food, he says it’s a tough question to answer. “I feel we are at a nascent stage. It isn’t a picture perfect story and customers need to give us that benefit of doubt before looking on the ‘organic’ tag with suspicion. This said, there are ardent fans of organic foods who are also willing to pay a premium price for the products they buy. This is when markets like ‘our good seeds’ and ‘adivaram angadi’ comes in handy; they allow buyers to build a connect and in that way customers can visit farmers and know how the food they eat is grown and what should make them make a choice. Organic growing isn’t only about our well being, it is a well being on the whole.”This struggle isn’t anything new and N. Balasubramanian of 24 Letter Mantra rightly puts it when he says, “All good things come with a struggle. Similar is the story with match making. When we began in 2004 it took us four years since we began selling our produce. Now having becoming a link between the farmer and the consumer, our aim is to improve livelihoods. Having said that, it is also about gaining the trust of both. But I would say that the conversion rate for customers is at almost 100 percent and that is a good indicator.”