http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Organic-paddy-harvest-gets-a-star-cast-in-Kochi/article13995778.ece

Clinching a record of sorts, the Kandanad Padasekhara Samithi (Kandanad Paddy Collective) led by actor-director Sreenivasan has begun harvesting the organic paddy cultivated by them for the fifth year in a row.The ‘Koythulsavam’ (harvest festival) was inaugurated by actor Mukesh on Monday.If the cultivation was just under three acres of land when the ball was set rolling on one of the most successful stories of sustainable organic farming and trade in this part of the State, lush rice fields under the Samithi now expand over an area of 20 acres from which 40 tonnes of rice is expected.“Despite putting our heart and soul into it, last year’s paddy yield was not satisfactory as the Jyothi variety of rice had come under pest attack. We had then used VAM [a fungus that’s applied as biofertiliser]. The latent benefit of this is evident right now. Besides, the Uma rice grain that we used this time is an upland variety, suitable for our soil conditions,” said agricultural officer Lissymol J.Vadakkoott, who extended all technical support to the Samithi.Organic farming enoughSreenivasan — president of the paddy collective and patron of the Udayamperoor Jaiva Karshaka Samithi, which has brought nearly 10 hectares of land in the area under organic vegetable cultivation and opened a shop, Udayasree, to sell the produces directly procured from farmers — said it was not enough to practice organic farming. “Thanks to severe atmospheric pollution, the showers bring along toxic metals like led that contaminate the soil. There are other heavy metals, too. New methods have to be evolved to ward off their adverse impact. We are now seeking remedies for this,” he said.Panchayat president John Jacob said efforts would be made to bring unused plots in the panchayat under organic farming. E.S. Jayakumar, development standing committee chairman, said if the panchayat once boasted some 800 acres of pokkali fields, there was no pokkali farming now. The authorities also said that they would spare no effort to make available land for construction of a permanent office for Krishi Bhavan.