http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Out-of-the-Bottle/article14024660.ece

In the late Nineties, when bands such as Thermal and a Quarter were becoming one of Bengaluru’s biggest rock acts, there was The BottleFlower Seeds, who spent their days playing at dhabas and actual bars. Guitarist-vocalist and founding member Santhos Nataraja recalls, “They (Thermal and a Quarter) were bagging all the big gigs and we were getting gigs in Manju Bar and Lakshmi Bar – that’s where we were playing – on the road. Usually, by the end of the performance, we’d all be out drunk on the road – audience and the performers!” The grunge/alternative rock band that came together in 1997 and took a break between 2003 and 2005, have been trying to get a footing in the independent circuit.In and out of studios but never happy with their recorded material, Santhos has been fighting on to keep the band afloat.Now with bassist Prithvi Mark, drummer Steve Jaby and guitarist Noel Rambo, The BottleFlower Seeds are finally set to release their first ever EP, comprising five songs ranging from early material like ‘Keen’ to ‘Fool’s Game’ and ‘Helter Skelter’. The EP is being recorded at Third Eye Studios in Indiranagar, where Santhos is also a sound engineer.It seems like it’s been a bit of a rollercoaster ride for him and the band – they’ve played the lowest places with not much to call a stage or proper sound equipment, rocking out to drunk patrons in a low-lit bar with just their amps. But the silver lining even in that was that they usually played their own material, never resorting to covers.As Santhos says: “If you have to play someone else’s song, you have to be good at it or you’re going to get hated. We just thought it was easier to play our own songs than learn someone else’s stuff.” He started this band with his cousin as a serious commitment. In 2003, he took a break from the band and went to New Zealand to study. He says with a laugh, “Family pressure – we are all so directed to studies. It was an MBA program. I don’t remember anything!” In 2008, they had the chance to perform at the Sutasi Talent Showcase in Singapore, which led to their first hit of sorts, ‘Keen’, which was released and promoted by Asia Sounds in Australia and the world over.Santhos recalls, “The music should be doing its own thing, so this felt a little manufactured. They took us to Singapore, though and they gave us great exposure.”If you had a look at all the other bands shortlisted at Sutasi with the BottleFlower Seeds, there’s the likes of Swarathma, Indigo Children, Nikhil D’Souza and Jalebee Cartel – all of whom have gone on to become popular country wide.But the time is now more than ever for The BottleFlower Seeds. By releasing their first ever official studio recordings in an age where you don’t necessarily need promoters and record labels, they can probably count on the Internet. Ever the experienced musician, Santhos knows that internet popularity is not the ultimate goal. He says, “The lifespan of a release online is maybe one week – people are going to like and share the music and it might even get a 1,000 plays and you think it’s going viral – but after a few days, we don’t know how far it’s reaching. How do you endure what you’re doing for the next six months?”In this scenario, we’d say more live performances. Going by their 20-song setlist at Blue Frog in December (which was their only live show that year), The BottleFlower Seeds have it in them to showcase some really angry, catchy grunge and alt rock that could definitely use more ears.