http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Out-of-the-box/article14026843.ece

Streets are never mere witness to our lives passing by. Streets speak. They even reach out to us only if we care to look at them. And artists very well know how to lead us there.Once a platform to register protests, calling out people for rallies, political marches, in a stark contrast, they also came to bear the weight of rising consumerism.Now some of our artists now are staking a claim to these streets as well. White cube is just not enough for them for they view these open spaces as more effective in initiating a dialogue with all those who don’t visit art galleries and museums. So, here it is! A street art movement is sweeping the country gradually and steadily.St+Art Festival, a festival celebrating street art in India, is in its fourth edition. A host of artists from India and abroad are busy giving the city a makeover. Lodhi Colony, a well-known residential area built by the British and home to several central government employees, has been transformed into a public art district.While someone has found inspiration in Shekhawati, another has given a new interpretation to our national flower. The bureaucratic staidness of these structures gets some verve and warmth by this riot of colours and expressions. Besides Lodhi Colony, another highlight of this year's festival is WIP, Work in Progress where artists are painting on 100 shipping containers at the Inland Container Depot in Tughlakabad.“How many people go to the gallery but everyone walks on these streets, sees them, crosses them. The idea behind this festival is to get people to consider street as a medium to express themselves. We want more and more people to join the movement. We want to take it to the art connoisseurs and beyond,” says Hanif Kureshi, co-founder and artistic director of St+Art Festival, who is himself a street artist.An absolutely unforgettable gift from this festival to the city has been the mural of Mahatma Gandhi painted by German artist Hendrick Beikrich and Anpu Varkey on the wall of Delhi Police Headquarters at ITO. One of the tallest murals in India, Gandhi was a conscious choice. “Hendrick doesn’t paint famous people but we requested him to do it because people relate to Gandhi. Gandhi mural was important for us to keep the movement going,” recalls Hanif, who plans to take the festival to Bengaluru soon.For an agency like police to be keen about having its wall painted, haven’t we come quite far? The West Bengal Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, 1976 makes graffiti or writing, drawing, painting on public walls an offence in India. It attracts the punishment of arrest and jail for six months/fine of Rs.1000 or both. “Yes, Delhi Police was keen to have the mural and even made us write ‘Peer parai jaane re’ on it. It had a context. Every police station has a photo of Gandhi. But mind you the government is still allergic to graffiti and as far as support to other forms of street art is concerned, I think they can be much more supportive of it,” feels Hanif.Helmut Schippert, Director of Goethe-Institut Chennai, agrees with Hanif. Instrumental in revving up the street art scene in Chennai, Helmut wonders why authorities remain anxious about it. “Carrying out these activities as an institution, we need to work with due permissions and I get this feeling that they think it will cause some kind of damage to the property,” says Helmut.However, Goethe-Institut’s “Conquer The Concrete” stirred up the scene positively. “I won’t say it’s everywhere now but yes, it’s a bit more than what it used to be. Earlier the landscape was dominated by paintings and posters of politicians, which once torn used to look very ugly. Now often we see newly painted walls.” He says the murals at crucial sites like MRTS Railway Station, Egmore Station, Central Station clearly set the tone. “An American painter came across this lady living on Greenways Road at MRTS station without any roof on her head. She has been living like that for 10 years so he painted her portrait and simply wrote ‘Life’ in Tamil. Egmore Station had a very strong impact. It appeared in political pages of newspapers,” he says.Street art in India is largely shaping up as a tool to spread a social message and it is for this reason the policy makers have endorsed it for. Ullas Hydoor and Poornima Sukumar highlighted the police initiative of encouraging women to report instances of sexual abuse or harassment at Ashok Nagar Police Station in Bengaluru. And now Ullas is doing a similar project for a police station in Pune. It definitely is a relevant communication tool but the artist feels it will take time to be recognised as just art.“Street art is not appreciated purely as art. Be it the Ugly Indian, painting flyovers or any other community project is concerned, street art is being used as a practical thing to beautify the space. It really engages people but I think it is first step we need to take to reach the next step where it will considered and respected as an art form,” says Ullas, who along with Baadal Nanjundaswamy is participating at St+Art Festival in Delhi.New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC), one of the two civic agencies in Delhi, became a perfect partner for Delhi Street Art to bring value to the city. Kicked off in 2013, Delhi Street Art began with turning trash bins in Lodi Gardens into a canvas. Emboldened by the response, the outfit joined hands with the nodal public agency for beautifying Shankar Market in Central Delhi. “I think the awareness about street art has really increased, thanks to media attention, social media and changing attitudes. Recently we were painting Uttam Nagar (East) metro station and its surroundings were quite dirty but within three hours the place was transformed. There were so many young artists who came from different parts of the city to paint. Next on our list is a shelter for young girls in Okhla,” says Yogesh Saini, the brain behind the organization, which is now trying to go beyond the Capital. Its members recently painted portraits of national heroes, who hailed from Gujarat, on a flyover in Ahmedabad and has also undertaken activities in Agra and Simla. It even put up a street art festival in Rishikesh. “Since it gets a lot of international tourists, we thought of doing it there and local as well as international artists who happened to be there joined the festival. There were artists from Israel, Brazil, Belgium, students from Woodstock painted the area around Lakshman Jhula. We didn’t know it would turn out to be successful,” says Saini.In Banaras too, street art is being used for reclaiming and reconnecting with the ancient city. Suresh K.Nair, a professor in the mural section of the department of painting at Banaras Hindu University (BHU) has initiated City Decorative Project (CDR). “I had identified 200-300 places in Banaras but till now managed to do 12-13 which comprise schools’ walls, hotels’ boundary walls. There are no funds, no galleries to support our work so we raise funds through our work for private spaces like hotels and then fund our street art effort. The idea is to clean the place, to beautify it and tell the stories of the place,” says Nair.Spreading wingsSt+Art is back with its fourth edition in Delhi in Delhi till February 16 where it is on till Feb 16 and will soon travel to Bengaluru. Hendrick, who painted the Gandhi mural at ITO, is back this year. He is going to paint a kid's portrait.The street art movement has gathered steam in Bengaluru. Poornima Sukumar recently kicked off ‘Aravani Art project’ by bringing artists and members of the transgender community to a wall near K.R. Market.Baadal Nanjundaswamy has really shaken up the authorities with his life-sized crocodile planted in the middle of a road to draw the attention of the civic authorities to repair a pothole. BBMP took note of it and immediately fixed it.(See story on how artist Bhuwal Prasad is turning a disused container into a work of art)