http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Visakhapatnam/Over-4-lakh-children-to-be-covered-in-Pulse-Polio-campaign/article14004880.ece

Another phase of Pulse Polio campaign commenced all over the district as part of the national programme, with Collector N. Yuvaraj administering polio drops to children at the Mother and Child Centre in Chinna Waltair on Sunday morning.As many as 4,38,386 children in the 0-5 years age group would be administered polio drops and for this purpose 1,749 Pulse Polio booths have been established in rural areas, 600 in the GVMC area and 1,283 in the Agency area.A total of 7,264 two-member teams would undertake house-to-house verification to ensure every child in the 0-5 years age group was administered the polio drops.In addition, there are 363 supervisors, 122 mobile teams and 108 cold-chain units functioning along with 102 special mobile teams covering the railway stations, bus-stations and airport.A total of 331 high-risk areas were identified in the district and 22,474 children living in them would be administered the polio drops without fail.District Immunisation Officer K. Vijayalakshmi, Additional DMHO Suryanarayana, District Leprosy Officer R. Ramesh, District Coordinator of Vaidya Vidhana Parishad Nayak and other officers are supervising the campaign.Mop-up operationsThe mop-up operations would continue for three days from Monday. Panchayati Secretaries along with ANMs, Aasha workers and members of the SHGs would visit every house in the area allotted to them and administer the polio drops to the children who missed immunisation on Sunday.Municipal Chairperson Ch. Anitha started the campaign in Narsipatnam at a booth at Ramalayam in Velamaveedhi.She urged people to make sure that children in the 0-5 years age group in their home were administered the polio drops.CSR activityNTPC Simhadri Super Thermal Power Station as a part of CSR activity extended support to National Pulse Polio Programme on Sunday.The programme was organised under the aegis of Primary Health Centre, Vadacheepurupalli in Paravada mandal. Polio vaccine was administered to children in the age of 0 to five years. Medical officer Dr. Srinivas and Mandal Parishad president M. Appala Naidu took part in vaccination.