http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/Over-100-migrant-workers-sent-back-to-Odisha/article14003198.ece

Migrant Odisha labourers along with their family members working in a brick kiln in Rangapur village of Peddapalli mandal created a mild commotion in Karimnagar district by organising a protest walk from the kiln to the Karimnagar district headquarters on the early hours of Friday.A small tussle which erupted between Odisha tractor driver Sahadev and the brick kiln owner Venkateshwara Rao over driving the vehicle in an inebriated condition created commotion in the kiln. The migrant labourers alleged that Mr. Rao thrashed the driver, Sahadev, black and blue causing serious injuries and that they too were scared of facing the same wrath.Expressing concern over the alleged harassment of the brick owner, the migrant labourers along with their family members launched the protest walk from the kiln site to Karimnagar town, traversing a distance of 42 kilometres. They started their protest walk on Thursday night and reached Karimnagar on Friday morning.All along the route, the brick kiln owners and the police tried to pacify the agitators, but in vain. Braving chilly weather, they came to the town and met Collector Neetu Prasad and poured out their woes and urged her to send them back to their villages in Odisha. Promising them to send them back, the Collector told them not to collect advance before coming to the kiln to work.Later, the Labour Department, Revenue and Police officials provided them food and purchased train tickets and shifted all the 146 migrant labourers, including their family members and children, to Odisha, from the Ramagundam railway station.Deputy Labour Commissioner A. Gandhi said that they had recently inspected the brick kiln and found all basic amenities for the labourers at the site - including toilets, drinking water, proper accommodation etc.The official quoted the brick kiln owner as saying that the labourers, who had collected advance, were making false allegations to avoid work. Mr. Gandhi said that the labourers usually come to work after collecting advance through ‘sardars’ (middlemen) and later try to avoid work. He said that the administration was planning to take measures to ensure that the labourers come to work site armed with proper documents without collecting advance from the owners.“We will ensure that they get minimum wages and their salaries are credited in the bank accounts regularly by helping them open bank accounts,” he said.