http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/music/Packaged-impressively/article14012077.ece

Mohan Santhanam’s concert turned out to be an intense and refreshing fare. The choice of songs and his perspective made it so. The striking kalpanaswaras for ‘Sobillu Saptaswara’ (Thyagaraja) in Jaganmohini gave enough impetus to the concert.Rarely figuring ‘Raga Sudharasa’ (Thyagaraja) in Andolika with swaras for the pallavi showed the singer’s felicity to spin interesting matrices. Mohan once again demonstrated this in his swaraprastara for the popular ‘Raghuvamsa Sudha’ (Patnam Subramania Iyer) in Kathanakuthuhalam. Mohan proved it a misconception that this raga and the composition are best suited to instrumental presentation. He not only provided a dramatic prologue of the raga but also lined it up with swaras centred on gandharam initially and gradually switched over to many stylistic combinations exclusive to Kathanakuthuhalam.Dhanyasi raga and the kriti ‘Balakrishnan Padamalar’ (Papanasam Sivan) with niraval on ‘Vyakulam Thavirthu’ was a wise move. His raga essay of Dhanyasi was sated with potent karvais bridged with sleek akaras. In the prime raga Sankarabharanam also Mohan selected ‘Ethuda Nilachithe’ (Thyagaraja). The raga alapana, which started with many poignant motifs, later banked on spry brigas. Since the kriti itself carried myriad shades of Sankarabharanam in the form of sangatis, the fairly compact alapana was, indeed, a better proposition.The musical equation between Mohan and Mysore Srikanth on the violin worked well and in all his replies Srikanth showed astuteness. His contributions in Kathanakuthuhalam and Dhanyasi need special mention.Srimushnam Raja Rao and S.V. Ramani on mridangam and ghatam performed like live wires. Their rapport during the swara segments of Jaganmohini, Kathanakuthuhalam and Sankarabharanam strengthened the appeal.In the thani avartanam, the royal battle between the mridangam and pot was robust with the rhythm coming out in riotous colours. However, on the flip side, in the absence of proper balancing of volume, in such vociferous demonstration of rhythm, the ultimate musical value invariably is lost.Two other pleasing inclusions were ‘Lemi Delpa’(Thyagaraja) in Melaraga Navaneetham and ‘Bhajamanasam’ (Vasudevachar’s Dwadasa kriti) in Kapi.