http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Palak-Muchhal%E2%80%99s-early-trip-towards-glory/article13995900.ece

Budding vocalist Palak Muchhal’s singing interests were something that even took her mom by surprise at the age of 3. Born in a Marwari family where get-togethers and rituals are never complete without music, she was asked to perform on the stage during a function. “While everyone around expected me to dance, speak or recite a poem at best, I went onto sing Lata Mangeshkar’s number ‘ Chal re sajni’ to everyone’s shock,” she recollects.Since then , Palak’s mother left no stone unturned to push her child’s talents forward. She took Palak to a guru to learn Hindustani classical music at the age of four.Palak then got her major break when she was selected in the Little Stars competition hosted by Kalyan-Anand and travelled across the world.The Indore-based girl’s musical journey since then has been filled with a social purpose that’s rare for her age. Singing to raise funds for blind kids, victims of the 1999 Kargil War, heart patients, establishing a heart foundation, her childhood was quite different from many.It was only recently that her brother Palaash at 20, also trained in classical music, turned a composer with the Shilpa Shetty production Dishkiyaoon.“We’ve done live concerts together but our journeys have been drastically different,” she quips.Career-wise, Salman was the first person the 23-year-old had come across in Mumbai, who helped get her major break with Ek Tha Tiger, though she made her debut in Himesh Reshamaiyya’s Damadamm.Lending her voice to nearly 250 films later in half a dozen languages (Tamil, Telugu, Kannada, Malayalam, Gujarati and Hindi), including Aashiqui 2 and now Prem Ratan Dhan Payo, she’s on an all-time high.“Four songs in Prem Ratan.. were a shot in the arm for me. Being a Salman film, who I consider my godfather, I gave everything I had.Barjatya sir entrusted more responsibility saying my numbers would be the ones to be shown in the promos,” she says, adding that the dubsmashes of the title track, initiated by Sonam Kapoor took the song to unexpected quarters including Sridevi, Helen and Waheeda Rehman.“Singing for them would have never been possible otherwise. It was nice to see them grooving to my voice,” Palak blushes.Palak, who also had hit tracks from Gabbar Is Back, Baahubali and Bajrangi Bhaijaan in 2015, feels privileged to have people compare her voice to Shreya Ghoshal, but has her foot set on the ground knowing she has a really long way to go.She says, “They have been sweet to say that. She’s my most favourite singer after Lataji. I don’t feel I’m close to her though.” What she advises every aspirant singer who comes to Mumbai for a career is to be very practical.“They should talk to as many people as possible and get a pulse of reality.Most importantly, they should be positive, prepared to fight the battle themselves,” adding it’s a right time to enter the industry, given there’s no monopoly and that, only the aptness for a movie and a situation counts.Palak has a long list of dream composers she wants to work with including A.R.Rahman, Amit Trivedi and Vishal Trivedi.Given the packed calendar till December this year, the spring in her step and the confidence in her voice, that day doesn’t seem much far.