http://www.thehindu.com/sport/Panel-for-root-and-branch-change-in-BCCI-structure/article13980973.ece

The Supreme Court-appointed Justice R.M. Lodha Committee has recommended a >root-and-branch change in the structure of the Board of Control for Cricket in India.Basically, the Committee has divided the BCCI’s functions into two categories — governance and management. The IPL structure has also undergone a foundational change.Here are the changes suggested within the BCCI structure:One State- One VoteThe BCCI at the moment consists of 30 full members some of who do not field teams, while others do not represent any territory. Twenty States and one Union Territory are included, and 10 States and six Union Territories remain either excluded or disenfranchised. In addition, officially there are associate and affiliate members as well as so-called “future members.”The Lodha Committee has nixed multiple representations from certain States. The General Body of the Board will have one cricket association per State with full voting rights. They have the power to make laws and rules. They elect the BCCI president, secretary, vice-president, joint secretary and the treasurer.Apex CouncilThis is a nine-member council which will head the ‘governance’ of the BCCI’s functioning. It will decide the road map for development of the game. It will oversee and monitor the professional management of the BCCI on a day-to-day basis. The nine members include the BCCI president, vice-president, secretary, joint secretary and treasurer. The remaining members will be called ‘Councillors’ and include those independent of the BCCI. These are two nominees (a man and a woman) from the Cricket Players’ Association, one nominee from the Comptroller and Auditor General’s office to ensure financial transparency and one elected representative from the BCCI General Body.The Apex Council is accountable to the BCCI General Body.Cricket Selection Committees consisting of ex-players with domain knowledge and Umpires Committees are all accountable to the Apex Council.BCCI CEOThe ‘management’ wing of the BCCI will be composed of a CEO, who would be a person with past experience as MD or CEO in a corporation with over Rs. 100 crore turnover, and six managers who are career employees. They will be the nodal authority in charge of all “non-cricketing affairs,” including the logistical concerns of the players. They will be advised by the Tours and Fixtures Committee and the Technical Committee. The BCCI CEO’s functions will be accountable to the Apex Council.IPLIndian Premier League events would be under the charge of the IPL Governing Council. This Council enjoys only limited autonomy. It is also composed of nine members. They are the BCCI Secretary, Treasurer and the BCCI CEO. The BCCI Governing Body can nominate two representatives. Two IPL franchisees, on an annual rotational basis, send two nominees.The CAG’s Councillor on the BCCI Apex Council will be a member. Finally, the Cricket Players’ Association can send a nominee.The Council will have all the committees as per the IPL Regulations — Anti-Corruption Code, Code of Conduct and Operational Rules — working under it.