http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Panel-sought-to-evaluate-theatre-performances/article14006837.ece

One of the major drivers for promoting theatre would be offering the performance avenues at free of cost to the organisers, opined renowned dialogue writer Paruchuri Gopalakrishna.Speaking to The Hindu , on sidelines of the inaugural of the 'Nandi Natakotsavams 2015', here on Monday, Mr. Gopalakrishna urged the Andhra Pradesh and Telangana governments to establish a scrutiny panel to evaluate theatre-related events and offer performance platforms at free of cost, so as to propagate the waning art forms.“Majority of the theatre artistes do not run behind money or prizes. They are talented and are passionate towards their cause. The only thing they strive for is recognition and spreading a meaningful message to the society,” he added.Contrasting the situation of theatre in other States, Mr. Gopalakrishna remarked that both the Telugu speaking States had lagged behind in projecting their art forms.“Theatre is a cost effective medium, which establishes a direct connect with people. That is why, in the olden days, it was considered a thriving mode of expression. Even progressive thinkers used to conduct street plays to pass on their views on some pressing issues in the society,” he maintained. Pointing out to the trend, in which tickets for plays are purchased online in other States, situation here is grim with many of the people disinterested in viewing plays/dramas. Presence of big names in film and theatre industry might make people accustomed to the act of viewing plays, he opined.Mr. Gopalakrishna further emphasised on the need for improving the existing 'standard of living' of the artistes via welfare schemes by the respective State governments.In this present context, where the prices of essential commodities are on the rise, offering some form of support to the artistes would boost their morale, both personally and professionally.Theatre artistes do not run behind money or prizes. The only thing they strive for is recognition- Paruchuri Gopalakrishna,dialogue writer