http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Park-up-for-free-and-pop-into-the-mall-it%E2%80%99s-your-right/article13998109.ece

How often have you flinched at being asked to pay an unreasonable parking fee at one of the shopping malls in the city?Now, that may soon become a thing of the past, if Kochi Corporation has its way. Deputy Mayor T.J. Vinod said the civic body has neither permitted collection of parking fees nor the tickets issued had been sealed by it.“We are seized of the matter and the finance committee has asked the revenue officer to look into the issue and take necessary action as per the law,” he said. The move comes in the wake of a petition on the issue filed with the consumer redressal forum.There is no uniformity in the parking fees collected and it varies from mall to mall. “It is high time that authorities take action in this matter. I have always fond it an arbitrary practice implemented without any kind of monitoring and it has always sparked off a quarrel whenever I have visited the malls,” said E.M. Mujeeb, a government servant.In great demandThere is one commodity in the city the demand for which far exceeds the supply. And that gap is only rising. To realise that one need not look beyond Infopark Kochi.Despite arranging for additional parking space, a large number of vehicles remain parked along the road outside the campus.Infopark sources said that parking space for a car and a two-wheeler is arranged for every 40 sq.m. of carpet space. In fact, it was dropped from the previous benchmark of 100 sq.m. for IT as per the IT Policy, 2012.They said it could be a drain on investors since they had to make considerable investments on parking space alone. Sources said that Lulu group has earmarked multiple floors of their under-construction building at the Infopark campus.Infopark CEO Hrishikesh Nair rightly pointed out that no space would be adequate enough if majority of employees chose to come in their own vehicles.So, the way out is to promote public transport, which we have done by arranging for bus services, he said.And then there is the wait for that ubiquitous solution for transportation woes of all hues these days – Kochi metro.Apart from Infopark, SmartCity Kochi is also pinning its hope on the extension of metro to Kakkanad to facilitate smooth conveyance of thousands likely to be employed there.Reporting byM.P. Praveen