http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Visakhapatnam/Parades-flag-hoisting-ceremonies-mark-R-Day-fete/article14022517.ece

The rhythm of the drumbeats, the parades that depict unity in diversity and a series of flag hoisting ceremonies added charm to 67{+t}{+h}Republic Day celebrations celebrated across the city on Tuesday.Sporting traditional attires, students of Little Angels English Medium School, Ukkunagaram, entertained the audience with their impressive dance performances, focusing on patriotism as its theme. Members of the Little Green Club performed a skit that brought the message ‘Live and let live’ to the fore.After unfurling the tricolour, the invitees at Sri Prakash Vidyaniketan gave inspiring lectures. Commanding Officer of 2 RT Battalion, NCC, Lt. Col. V.S. Srinivas, Additional Superintendent of Police (retired) T.S.R. Prasad and Professor of Surgery, Andhra Medical College T. Narayana Rao along with other invitees spoke on the importance of developing patriotism, positive attitude and the importance of preserving diverse cultural heritage of the country. Students presented cultural programmes including ball-aerobics and Casio concert.With the theme as ‘Gaurav Gatha’, Delhi Public School, North celebrated the 67{+t}{+h}R-Day with patriotic fervour. Close to 300 students presented a ballet that depicted the journey of the country from pre-independence era to post independence. Dandi March and Quit India Movement, among several other skits were presented by the students.Flag-hoisting ceremony marked the R-Day celebrations at Kendriya Vidyalaya-Malkapuram, Gayatri Vidya Parishad MLBT School, and Delhi Public School, Visakhapatnam Steel Plant along with Junior Chamber International Port City and Kanakamahalakshmi Cooperative Bank Limited, Akkayyapalem. Bringing smiles to many young faces, Lions Club Visakhapatnam celebrated the day at Government Primary School, Kommadi. In line with this, the club has taken up repair works and donated utility items to the school management.Students of Ravindra Bharathi Educational Institutions celebrated the R-Day with gaiety .Those who stood out in various competitions walked away with prizes. Dean of North Andhra for Academics G.R. Vasantha spoke about the importance of scaling great heights by keeping their focus on their goals.