http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/Parties-yet-to-issue-B-forms-as-nomination-closes/article14005155.ece

he nominations for elections to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation closed on Sunday afternoon with some parties yet to issue B-forms confirming the candidature of their nominees in cases of dispute. The same could be filed till the deadline for withdrawal of nominations expired on January 21.While the TRS officially announced candidates for all 150 wards, the Congress limited the number to 125 but orally advised its leaders to file nominations in the remaining wards. The BJP also directed its cadre by phone messages to file nominations and assured to make public the list on Monday.The TDP and BJP decided to contest the polls in 87:63 ratio but the parties are involved in dispute in seven to eight wards.BJP MLA of Goshamahal Raja Singh was a stumbling block for the party as he insisted on ticket for his followers from the five wards in the Assembly segment. But, the TDP was allotted a couple of wards in the alliance. The BJP sources said the issue might not go to the extent of Mr. Singh retaining his followers in the contest as independents. They also said the local adjustments with TDP will be sorted out.The candidates went in rallies with large crowds to file nominations at circle and zonal offices of GHMC. Two sisters-in-law Annapurna and Jayasri filed nominations on behalf of TRS and TDP respectively at Erragadda. The Congress supporters from Sithaphalmandi created a scene at Gandhi Bhavan stating that a YSR Congress leader was given the ticket in the area. The YSR Congress issued a show cause notice to its general secretary K. Shiva Kumar for expressing his opposition to the party stand not to contest polls.The MIM released names of 65 candidates. A total of 61 candidates have filed their nominations on behalf of MIM here on Sunday. The party, however, did not release its official list of candidates even on the last day of filing nominations.