http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/Parliamentary-panel-sought-to-look-into-defections/article13994603.ece

Former speaker of the Legislative Assembly in the joint State of Andhra Pradesh K.R. Suresh Reddy suggested constitution of an active and permanent parliamentary committee to observe and submit reports on various incidents of defection across the country.These inputs may be used to strengthen the law against defections which is in urgent need of refinement, Mr. Reddy said at a meeting here attended by Speaker of the Telangana Assembly, S. Madhusudanachari besides, respective chairpersons of Legislative Councils of both Telangana and Andhra Pradesh states, K. Swamy Goud and A. Chakrapani.He urged the Rajya Sabha member and former Home Minister of AP, T. Devender Goud, whose speeches in the Legislative Assembly were released in two volumes at the meeting, to make proactive efforts in pushing for such a committee.Political parties have become leader-centric which is undesirable for democracy, Mr. Reddy noted, and said public opinion is very low on the functioning of legislature. Lamenting the non-implementation of recommendations for extended sessions of legislature, he said government would stand to gain through such model, as it keeps the whole of administrative machinery alert with all kinds of information.Also recommending independence of legislature, he said legislative committees should be made effective. “Even when the sessions are not on, the Assembly functions through legislative committees, that too devoid of the usual politics. But, it is only unfortunate that the committees’ recommendations are ignored by the government,” Mr. Reddy said.Releasing the two volumes of Mr. Goud’s speeches in his role as deputy floor leader of TDP between 2004 and 2009, Tamil Nadu Governor K. Rosaiah said democracy functions better with existence of both Upper and Lower houses.He praised Mr. Goud’s role in the legislature as non-controversial, responsible and balanced.