http://www.thehindu.com/features/downtown/Past-students-of-Stanley-help-school-in-Ashok-Nagar-recover-from-flood-damage/article14015911.ece

For the class X and XII students of Government Girls Higher Secondary School, Ashok Nagar, the last few weeks have been difficult. More than the preparation for the written exams, they have been worried about the practicals. The recent floods, which ravaged the city, submerged the school under eight feet of water. The students lost all their notebooks and study material. But the damage to the Chemistry lab was causing them the utmost concern.However, help has now come in teh from unexpected quarters. A group of doctors, who were attending to the sick in flood-affected areas wanted to go beyond just conducting medical camps. One of them initiated a WhatsApp group and within days over 100 people were on board. The team members, part of the 1993 batch of Government Stanley Medical College, call themselves Frenzy 93.“Of the 140 students who joined the Stanley Medical College, 120 came together on WhatsApp and decided to offer support to the affected students. Some of the members have settled abroad. We adopted the Government Girls Higher Secondary School, Ashok Nagar, which is known for producing State rank holders. It is our mission to bring the school back to its past glory,” says Dr. V. Anandkumar, radiologist.The team has already renovated four classrooms and is in the process of rebuilding the chemistry lab.“The flooring and the cement tables were badly damaged. From electrical and plumbing work to interior and exterior painting, every work is being attended to. One of us takes turns to oversee the work. We will finish the work well before the practical exams begin,” he adds.“Though we received lot of help from organisations some of which offered counselling to students, the infrastructure part was left out. We are really happy that the doctors are helping us rebuild the classrooms and the lab,” says the headmistress of the school.