http://www.thehindu.com/features/education/college-and-university/Passion-for-public-service/article13977054.ece

After finishing my Bachelor’s in English from Women’s Christian College, Chennai, I took a gap year to figure out what I was really passionate about. I narrowed in on Public Administration, and then began looking for universities abroad. During my search, I stumbled upon The Bush School of Government and Public Service, a Presidential school that is a part of Texas A&M University.As they say enrolling yourself in a master’s programme is like taking up a full-time job, with no weekend offs. That is exactly what I felt. Having said that, I learnt a lot after spending a semester with wonderful professors and colleagues.The Master of Public Service and Administration programme at the Bush School allows for flexibility. A student is allowed to choose from three tracks — Public Management (which I chose), Non-Profit Management and Public Policy Analysis and a concentration (which you can create if the available concentrations aren’t what you want to do) apart from the electives. The coursework is rigorous and demanding. But, in the process, one learns how to research, write and work in teams that have highly experienced professionals and students like me who are straight out of undergraduation.The professors are given the freedom to design the curriculum and decide how students will be evaluated. While some courses have exams, others require you to turn in papers regularly. Some classes are lecture- based, while others are discussion oriented. Each course has readings assigned for each class. Apart from this, homework and assignments are given periodically. A lot of emphasis is laid on honesty and being ethical. Plagiarism is a strict ‘no-no’.College Station, as the name suggests, is a university town. A&M is voted as the happiest and friendliest campus in the U.S. and rightly so. Aggies (the students who go to A&M) are very warm and helpful. There are Aggie football traditions such as the 12th man and midnight yells. Then, there are somber traditions such as the Silver taps, Bonfire memorial and Muster, each of which stand for the values A&M believes in. There is a traditions council whose mission is to promote and protect Aggie traditions. Choosing A&M has been one of the best decisions in my life.Besides the transition from undergraduation to postgraduation, the shift from one country to another can also be overwhelming. Not only is it important to talk to people who have been here before to mentally get used to what to expect, but also come in with an open mind to learn and appreciate different cultures, values and beliefs.The writer is pursuing master’s in public service and administration at the Bush School of Government andPublic Service, Texas A&M University, U.S.