http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Visakhapatnam/Passport-office-makes-significant-strides/article13978656.ece

A significant decrease in the average time taken for the issue of a passport, reducing the appointment cycle at the Passport Seva Kendras (PSKs) and an increase in the number of passports issued are some of the achievements of the Regional Passport Office (RPO), Visakhapatnam, during the just-concluded calendar year 2015.The year 2015 is momentous for the RPO, Visakhapatnam, with the Ministry of External Affairs deciding to upgrade it as the RPO for new Andhra Pradesh. Prior to the bifurcation of Andhra Pradesh, there were two RPOs, one each in Hyderabad and Visakhapatnam.Earlier, the Visakhapatnam RPO was catering to the passport needs of applicants from Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, East and West Godavari districts, while the remaining districts were under the purview of the Hyderabad RPO.All the districts in AP, except those in Rayalaseema, which are presently under the Tirupathi PSK of the Hyderabad RPO, have now been brought under the Visakhapatnam RPO. Guntur and Krishna districts in AP and Yanam in Puducherry have been brought under the control of the Visakhapatnam RPO in May, 2015.Second PSKThe opening of a second PSK in Visakhapatnam city in August reduced the congestion at the main PSK (Murali Nagar). The second PSK, functioning from the RPO building at Marripalem VUDA Layout, began operations with 180 slots but they were subsequently increased to 350 slots a day. Consequently, the number of slots at the Murali Nagar PSK was reduced from 850 to 750, thereby de-congesting it.“The appointment cycle at PSKs under the Visakhapatnam RPO has been brought down to 1-2 working days in 2015 from 21-45 days during the previous year. The average time taken for issue of a passport from the time of submission of application has come down to 10-15 days as compared to 3-5 weeks in 2014,” says Regional Passport Officer N.L.P. Choudary.“We brought down the pendency of applications at various stages. Last year, 30,000 applications were pending for review of adverse police verifications. The pendency has been brought down to barely 100 applications pending for review in the queue on any given day. In fact, our staff worked till late in the night on December 31 even as the people of the city were involved in celebrations to herald the New Year.”“I wanted to begin the New Year with a clean slate and wanted no passports pending at the print and despatch sections,” he added.