http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Patil%E2%80%99s-appointment-as-HKRDB-chairman-comes-as-a-surprise/article14013081.ece

The State government’s decision to appoint Minister of State for Medical Education Sharanprakash Patil as the chairman of the Hyderabad Karnataka Region Development Board (HKRDB), replacing Municipal Administration and Minority Affairs Minister Qamarul Islam, has come as a surprise to many in the political and official circles.The appointment of Dr. Patil, immediately after the election to the Legislative Council from the local bodies constituency, in which the Congress candidate Allamprabhu Patil was defeated, has sent a strong message to activists that the Congress leadership wants to ensure a better performance in the crucial elections to the zilla and taluk panchayats. Dr. Patil, who is a close follower of the Leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha M. Mallikarjun Kharge, is known to be a tough task master and has an unblemished track record as a three-time legislator and as a first time Minister in the Siddaramaiah Cabinet.Mr. Qamarul, a senior legislator from the region, has proved his mettle as a Minister in the S.M. Krishna and Siddaramaiah cabinets and his appointment as the chairman of the HKRDB too had come as a surprise to many. One of the major complaints faced by Mr. Qamarul during his two-year tenure was that the HKRDB could not utilise most of the funds allotted by the government.However, Mr. Qamarul cannot be blamed for it as he hardly got 13 months in the 24-month period to actually plan and spend the over Rs. 2,000 crore allotted in the budget for the HKRDB. As per the latest details available, of the total Rs. 820 crore released by the government from October 2014 to December 2015, the HKRDB has spent around Rs. 355 crore as of now.Dr. Patil, who steered the party to victory in the elections to the Legislative Council from the local bodies constituency as the in-charge Minister of Raichur, was also primarily responsible for the revival of the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital at Raichur. He can also take credit for upgrading the peripheral cancer centre in Kalaburagi to a full-fledged cancer hospital and bringing high-end cardiology related treatment to the doorsteps of the people of the Hyderabad Karnataka region by establishing a full fledged unit of the Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular diseases and Research in Kalaburagi.