http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/Patriotic-fervour-marks-R-Day-celebrations/article14022209.ece

The 67{+t}{+h}Republic Day was celebrated with enthusiasm in all the government offices and various institutions on Tuesday.The day was marked with unfurling the tricolour, inspiring messages and distribution of prizes to officers and staff, who participated in different sports, games and other events organised in connection with the Republic Day.Justice Samudrala Govindarajulu, Chairman of AP Administrative Tribunal, unfurled the national flag and members of the Tribunal, Bar and officers and staff joined the celebrations.D. Prabhakar Rao, Chairman and Managing Director of TSGENCO and TSTRANSCO, hoisted the national flag at Vidhyut Soudha and at the Southern Power Distribution Company of Telangana Ltd.,Chairman and Managing Director G. Raghuma Reddy after hoisting the tricolour, recalled the recent initiatives to ensure uninterrupted power supply to all sectors of consumers.He announced that Rs.1,300 crore had been allocated in this financial year towards infrastructure development to facilitate nine hour power supply to the farming sector from April.Acknowledging the services of senior officials and staff, he exhorted them to serve the consumer even better with greater accountability and responsibility.G.V. Ramana Rao, Joint Managing Director of Telangana State Road Transport Corporation hoisted, the flag at Bus Bhavan and received the guard of honour.Andhra Pradesh State Warehousing Corporation Chairman L.V.S.R.K. Prasad hoisted the national flag at the corporate office in Nampally in the presence of Managing Director A.R. Sukumar and other officers and Board of Directors. He promised to increase the storage space to 20 lakh tonnes from six lakh tonnes.Andhra Bank and the State Bank of Hyderabad also organised R-Day celebrations.South Central Railway Women’s Welfare Association celebrated the Republic Day in the midst of schoolchildren at Vidya Vihar High School, Chilakalaguda and Akanksha and its chairperson Shikha Gupta unfurled the flag.She and other executive committee members later visited the Lalaguda Central Hospital and distributed fruits to the patients.At the Basavatarakam Indo-American Cancer Hospital and Research Institute, its Chairman and MLA Nandamuri Balakrishna hoisted the tricolour and extended wishes to people of two Telugu States.Chairpersons of AP Legislature- Assembly Speaker Kodela Sivaprasada Rao and Council Chairman A. Chakrapani hoisted the national flag at the Assembly and Council premises in the presence of Deputy Chairman V. Satish Kumar Reddy, Legislature Secretaries and staff.AP Chief Information Commissioner M. Ratan hoisted the national flag on APIC premises in the presence of co-commissioners, senior officers and staff and highlighted the achievements so far under the RTI Act and asserted that every one should continue the same tempo in future.