http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/letters/Pathankot-attack/article13982935.ece

The terror attack on the Pathankot Air Force base and the gun battle near the Indian consulate in Afghanistan clearly show that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit has had a huge impact (“Counter-terror sweep continues” and “ITBP commandos save the day in Afghanistan”, Jan. 5). It seems as though the terror groups intend to interrupt and cancel the talks between India and Pakistan. If the talks get cancelled, the terrorists will accomplish their mission. The government should not let this happen. India should continue the talks with Pakistan.A.S. Vijay Vengatesh,ChennaiThe meeting of the National Security Advisers of India and Pakistan in Bangkok in December, External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj’s participation in the Heart of Asia conference in Pakistan, and Mr. Modi’s casual visit to Lahore on Christmas all gave the indication that there was progress in the peace dialogue. The sudden attack in Pathankot seems to have reversed the situation; everything seems to have returned to “normal” as far as relations with Pakistan are concerned. Does this mean that all these efforts were in vain?India has two solutions. One, it could stop the dialogue process until all the terror attacks cease from Pakistan’s side. Or it could reply to the attacks with attacks by the Indian Army. It is for the government to decide which will pave the way for better relations.Amit Sengar,ChennaiThe terror attack in Pathankot is both unfortunate and frightening, as it points to the absence of a proper defence security system; it shows that such attacks could occur anywhere and anytime. While we hope that such attacks can be avoided in future, it is time for us to salute all those who have sacrificed their lives for the sake of our nation.Harshada T.M.,Vatakara, KeralaThat the terrorists are able to strike India’s strategic points so easily and readily shows the serious lacuna in the country’s preparedness against terrorism. It has become a regular pattern for India to deal with one bold terrorist attack every time after initiating talks with Pakistan. So, the Pathankot airbase attack is not entirely surprising. That the operation has lasted three days in a place that should have been secured, and we’ve lost Army officers in the firing, does not speak well of our security system. But India should not fall prey to the whims of terrorist outfits and should continue dialogue with the Pakistan government while plugging the loopholes in its counterterrorism apparatus.D.V.G.Sankararao,Vizianagaram district, A.P. It is strange that it has taken more than 48 hours to eliminate a group of terrorists. How slack was the security system that terrorists could enter so easily? A detailed investigation must take place to determine why there was a failure in intelligence and why it took so much time to neutralise the terrorists. The failure of coordination between the Punjab Police and the Army is another issue that needs to be sorted out. It is important that we fix responsibility for the episode that has left several brave soldiers martyred in the line of duty.D.B.N. Murthy,Bengaluru