http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/letters/Pathankot-and-after/article13981108.ece

What amazes us the most is that despite alerts of a calamity in the making, the authorities concerned let the leads go cold for a while. It is obvious that there are too many loopholes in the way defence establishments ensure their security, which raises several questions about the state of preparedness of the defence security system.Ritika Chatak,Pathankot, PunjabIt is terrible that precious time was lost because the police officer who sounded the initial alert was not believed on account “of his having a colourful background” (“Puzzling delays, squandered chances and then gunshots”, Jan.3). However, this incident should not stop the inter-governmental dialogue process. There will be many who will only resort to annoying criticism and wishing for a misstep by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In a way, the Pathankot incident will only strengthen India’s position at the negotiating table.K. Rajendran,ChennaiIt was heart-wrenching to read about the martyrs — one married 45 days ago, another a Commonwealth medallist, and yet another, his family’s sole breadwinner… Enough is enough. India has to be tough with terrorist elements. After facing continuous attacks, how can we ever talk about peace and principles? Also, why were witnesses ill-treated (“Abducted by ultras, only to be ‘tortured’ by police later”, Jan.4)?Divakar Pai,ThrissurThough there is still no concrete evidence of Pakistan’s involvement, it may not be far-fetched to say that terrorist elements based abroad are calling the shots. India must now take strong steps and make it clear to whoever is behind these attacks that we are not sluggish. The Army and the ISI are in full control of Pakistan and the civilian government there has no option but to dance to their tunes. One must note that whenever the United States holds talks with Pakistan, the Army chief is usually present. India must now insist on this arrangement as well.S.P. Sharma,MumbaiWhen will we ever learn our lessons? How many more terrorist attacks do we need to overcome the flaws in our intelligence architecture? As far as the Pathankot attack was concerned, there was credible intelligence of an imminent attack. However, it is unfathomable why the level of alert around the base was not increased. We must learn to prepare ourselves to prevent a terrorist attack and not resort to a “defensive strategy”.Gaurav Singhal,New DelhiThe media seems to be in full political mode by asking for punitive action, perhaps encouraged by the meaningless official refrain of “ensuring a befitting reply”. The NSAs of both countries should meet immediately as that is what makes a crucial difference. In Pakistan, the present NSA has an Army background and can help ease the tension.T.C. Narayan,BengaluruWhen Mr. Modi made an unannounced visit to Pakistan, even the UN hailed it. But what India always gets in return is what amounts to war thrust on it. Though India may be genuine in its attempts to reach out to Pakistan, and which is clear to the rest of the world, Pakistan always seems to have the upper hand. The best way to tackle this burning issue is to encourage more people-to-people contacts thereby creating a people’s movement that strongly wants peace. This could be in the form of exchanges such as sporting meets, art shows and the screening of cinema. We share a passion for cricket, hockey and kabbadi as well as good cinema.If there are frequent tours by people from both sides, no power can act against the will of the people. Understanding between the two peoples is the best weapon we can deploy now.T. Anand Raj,Chennai