http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/Payment-for-LPG-refill-too-goes-online/article14003196.ece

All the three oil companies – Indian Oil, Hindustan Petroleum and Bharat Petroleum – have introduced refill bookings for cooking gas with online payments in Telangana for the past two months, but it received response only from the educated and tech-savvy consumers in Hyderabad while all the other towns in the State were left out.According to Madhukar Ingole, Chief Regional Manager of Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL) and State-level coordinator for LPG marketing companies, the system involves pre-paid bookings online and door delivery of cylinders the next day.Tamper-proof capsHe added that the companies were also working out introduction of tamper-proof caps for LPG cylinders to stop the supply of underweight cylinders but it was a difficult model because of the massive numbers.D. Ashok Kumar, president, Greater Hyderabad LPG Distributors Association, feels online payments are a better gateway but the system should ensure that transaction took on real-time basis. Otherwise, it would cause inconvenience to customers as well as distributors because more than two agencies were involved. By this, he meant, the customers made the payments online through their bank, the money was then credited to the account of the companies which in turn released the same to the dealer’s bank.Moreover, the money should be reflected in the dealer’s bank account before midnight for delivery next day as, otherwise, the computer generated bookings after that will fall on the subsequent day. It will be an embarrassment to the distributors if they complained that they already made the payment but the delivery failed to take place. The distributors uploaded the bills in the first hour for delivery on that day, he added.RegistrationThe three oil companies have taken up online facility of refill booking with online payments through their network of 11,829 distributors in the company. About 100 odd distributors implemented it in Greater Hyderabad. In Pune, the HPCL has implemented Smart card based delivery.The customers have to first register in www.mylpg.in or website of the concerned oil companies.The payment options are available via net banking, credit or debit cards. For net banking customers, an additional Rs. 8 transaction charges were payable. However, the customers could book the LPG cylinder and pay online on 24 x 7 basis.Checking pilferageIn the case of tamper evident seals which are presently fitted in Delhi, the companies are studying how the seals could be used in Telangana to check pilferage from cylinders.The tamper-proof seals are prone to tearing in case of forced removal of the present PVC seals. These seals cannot be removed without damage to them, thereby making them impossible for reuse.