http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Kochi/PCB-NIO-to-jointly-tackle-Periyar-pollution/article14006730.ece

Recurring incidents of discolouration of Periyar and fish kills have forced the Kerala State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) to rework its strategies.Conceding that it alone may not be able to tackle the issue, the board is planning to join hands with the Kochi regional centre of the National Institute of Oceanography (NIO) to test fish and water samples during such incidents. This is the fallout of the suggestions of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Science Technology, Environment and Forest, said K. Sajeevan, chairman of the board.Incidentally, the panel had directed the authorities last week to find solutions for solving the crisis and also demanded an Action Taken Report on Periyar pollution.Though a Memorandum of Understanding has not been reached, the two agencies have completed the initial rounds of discussions. A broad understanding has been reached where the board will examine the water samples when incidents of discolouration and fish deaths are reported. The NIO would examine the fish samples to ascertain the cause of mortality, he said.The board will also facilitate the collection of fish samples if the NIO scientists are not available. Moreover, if the institute wants to carryout further studies, the board will facilitate that too. The board needs the support of a host of agencies including the police, local bodies and others to tackle the situation, he said.P.K. Dineshkumar, a senior scientist of the institute, said the lab was equipped to carryout sophisticated tests. The institute has also reached an understanding with the board for the studies, he said.On Sunday too, fish kills were reported from Periyar. Environmentalists complained that the river water turned dark near Pathalam Bund near the Eloor-Edayar industrial belt.The bund was opened on Sunday morning after it was closed for a few days to prevent saline incursion. Fishes were found dead and floating at near Vettukadavu. This was the second such incident this month, they complained.Environmentalists have been protesting against the pollution incidents stating that it would pollute the drinking water sources. However, the board officials had earlier maintained that the reported incidents occurred away from the points from where water was sourced for distribution.