http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/Pedestrians-at-the-receiving-end/article14012857.ece

Walk into any market area in the city, and the one thing in common among all of them is that people are forced to walk on the roads due to encroached pavements. Be it business establishments or hawkers that occupy them or the illegal parking run by contractors, most of the footpaths in the city barely have any place for citizens to walk on.One of the most glaring examples of this is in front of the Chief Minister’s camp office at Begumpet, where the police have placed barricades beyond the footpath forcing pedestrians to dangerously walk on the main road. The situation is the same at many other places as well.At the Abids main road, for instance, most of the business establishments allow bikes to be parked in front of their shops on the footpath, taking away the utility of the footpath.Mannan Khan, a resident of Musheerabad who often travels by bus in the city, complained that it is business establishments that take over pavements and flout rules. “If it isn’t a bike parked in front of their shop, then hawkers will be allowed to sell their wares on a daily rental basis. This is very common in places near the Alpha Hotel and the old city,” he said.His complaint seemed to be genuine, as hawkers near the Monda market, who have been doing business on footpaths for years, say that they pay rent between Rs.100 to 200 every day to businesses for occupying the footpath space. “We have no other choice, as we cannot afford a shop and pay higher rents. Also, the items we sell are cheaper,” said Mohd. Akram, who sells footwear on the footpath opposite the Secunderabad Railway Station.In fact, there are unwritten rules among hawkers in market areas. The space that has been occupied by one from years is his – no other person can set up shop in his place even if he vacates it. “Unless I give it up voluntarily to someone, it is mine. If another hawker wants to sell his wares there, he has to pay me rent,” said Ejaz Ahmed (name changed).Other market areas like Nampally, Abids, Pathergatti, etc, also reflect similar situations. Data from the Hyderabad Traffic Police also shows that pedestrians are the highest accident victims. Till October 2015, out of the total 310 in that year, 144 were pedestrians.Whatever it may be, commuters are always discomforted due to lack of space. Preethi Reddy, who stays in Habsiguda, said that she almost met with an accident while walking home on the road one day. “A two-wheeler rider almost hit me. I have no other option but to walk on the road, because there is no footpath in spite of the roads being so wide near my house,” she recalled.When contacted, a GHMC official said that establishments are regularly fined and routine checks are conducted at market areas, to ensure that pavements are not occupied. “But it is not easy as this problem persists everywhere, and it is difficult to evict hawkers,” he added.