http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Pejawar-seer-gets-a-rousing-reception/article13984427.ece

Vishwesha Tirtha Swami of Pejawar Mutt, who will ascend the ‘Paryaya Peetha’ at Sri Krishna Math/Temple for a record fifth time here on January 18, was given a rousing reception during his ‘Pura Pravesha’ here on Monday.No seer of the Ashta Mutts or eight mutts of Udupi has ascended the ‘Paryaya Peetha’ for over four times. ‘Paryaya Peetha’ is also called ‘Sarvajna Peetha’ at the 800-year-old Sri Krishna Mutt/Temple ever since the biennial Paryaya system began in 1522. The ‘Pura Pravesha’ of the Pejawar seer was preceded by a pre-Paryaya tour, during which he visited various pilgrim centres across the country.Vishwesha Tirtha was accompanied by Vishwaprasanna Tirtha, junior seer of Pejawar Mutt. The ‘Pura Pravesha’ procession of the seer began from Jodu Katte at 4.20 p.m.A large number of people turned out to watch the procession.Both Vishwesha Tirtha and Vishwaprasanna Tirtha sat in a decorated carriage, which was in the shape of a golden swan in the front and a boat at the rear. The presiding deity of Pejawar Mutt – Lord Rama Vittala was carried in a golden palanquin before the carriage.Both the carriage and the palanquin were preceded by a procession of about 70 folk and cultural troupes, which went in a queue. The procession was so long that it took 45 minutes for all the teams to leave Jodu Katte. The cultural troupes added colour to the procession. They were led by devotees holding the insignia of the Mutt. Members of the Udupi District Muslim Paryaya Souharda Samiti distributed cool drinks to people on the Court Road. Both the seers then visited the Sri Chandramouleshwara Temple, Sri Ananteshwara temple and the Sri Krishna Math/Temple and offered their prayers. Then Vishwesha Tirtha offered ‘navagraha danas’ and entered the Pejawar Mutt.Vinay Kumar Sorake, Urban Development Minister; Shobha Karandlaje, MP; Pramod Madhwaraj, MLA; P. Yuvaraj, president of the Udupi City Municipal Council, were present.