http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Pejawar-Mutt%E2%80%99s-entrance-is-the-cynosure-of-all-eyes-at-Car-Street/article13987305.ece

The beautiful entrance to the Pejawar Mutt constructed recently in traditional style is now the cynosure of all eyes at the Car Street here. The entrance to the mutt looks beautiful not just during day time in natural light, but also during the night, when it is illuminated by artificial lights.Vishwesha Tirtha Swami of Pejawar Mutt will ascend the Paryaya Peetha at the 800-year-old Sri Krishna Mutt/Temple for a historic fifth time here on January 18.Traditional Dakshina Kannada style of architecture has been used to renovate the entrance, with some elements borrowed from Kerala.At the entrance of mutt, four large pillars have been built using concrete over the existing pillars.But what makes them beautiful are four lions carved out of cement. It looks as if the pillars are resting on the backs of the lions. The pillars also have the design of the Kedage Mundali on them.Behind it are two large wooden pillars. Here, the carvings are more beautiful not just on the pillars but the entire structure including the roof. Pattabhirama Acharya, civil engineer, who was in charge of the project, said that 350 cubic feet of wood was used for the entire structure.Mr. Acharya visited a few temples in Kerala to study the designs there before coming up with the present one.“When compared to other mutts of the ‘Ashta Mutts’ of Udupi, Pejawar Mutt has lesser wooden carvings. So we thought that we should have an attractive entrance. Besides Vishwesha Tirtha has always encouraged arts and we wanted it to be reflected in the entrance as well,” he said.The architecture wooden entrance has elements such as Karna Muchige on either sides of Padma Muchige. On the two wooden pillars, at the entrance, one can see dancers giving a “purna kumbha” welcome, on the side, they are doing namaskaras.On the return too, one can see them doing namaskaras. The floral design on the roof, too, is attractive.A team of 15 carpenters and designers under Nagaraja M.S. from Hariharpura, Koppa taluk, Chikkamagaluru district, worked for three months to complete the wooden entrance.“The wood used at the bottom is that of jungle jackfruit, while that at the top is hopea,” he said.The work on the wooden entrance, which started in October, 2015, was completed by January 3.