http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/People-participate-with-gusto-in-half-marathon/article13992957.ece

A large number of people participated in the ‘SyndicateBank Half Marathon’ organised by the Udupi District Amateur Athletic Association here on Sunday.The marathon was flagged off in front of the SyndicateBank head office, here. Roshan Mahanama, former Sri Lanka skipper; Ashwini Nachappa, Arjuna award winner; Arun Srivastava, managing director and CEO of SyndicateBank; H.S. Ballal, Pro-Chancellor of Manipal University; N. Vinay Hegde, Chancellor of Nitte University; and Raghupati Bhat, former MLA, were present.The participants passed through Tiger Circle, Syndicate Circle, D.C. Circle, Perampalli, Ambagilu, National Highway 66, Karavalli By-pass, Bannanje, Brahmagiri Circle, Nayarkere, Kinnimulki, Joddukatte, Court Road, Kavi Muddanna Road, Shiribeedu, Kalsank Circle, MGM College, Syndicate Circle and Manipal Post Office Road. The marathon culminated at the place where it started. Besides the 21-kilometre half marathon, there were races for other categories also.The top 12 winners in the Half Marathon (men’s) were: Kanthilal Devaram Kumbhar, Chotalal Pateel, Shiju C.P., Devanna Naik, Rathnesh Kumar Yadav, Mahesh Kumar A., (all from Alva’s College, Moodabidri), Rajshekhar (SDM College, Ujire), Navin K.N. (KSP, Bengaluru), Siddayappa, Shivananda (Alva’s College), Shivananda Shetty from Mumbai, Muttappa (S.R. High School, Bagalkote).The top 12 winners in Half Marathon (women’s) were: Soumya K., Shreya A., Akshata P.L., Archana K.M. (Alva’s College), Kavana K.P. (SDM, Ujire), Soumya M.V., Poornima (Alva’s), Rakshith K.G. (NMAMIT), Sujatha A.S. (Alva’s), Ashwitha R.P., Sujatha (SDM, Ujire), Rajani from Sagar.The first, second and third prize winners in both categories got cash prizes of Rs. 50,000; Rs. 25,000 and Rs. 15,000, respectively.Those from fourth to sixth positions in this race too were given prizes.The first, second and third prize winners weregiven awaycash prizes