http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Thiruvananthapuram/People%E2%80%99s-Education-Meet-to-counter-GEM/article14004562.ece

The All India Save Education Committee would organise a People’s Education Meet on January 29 and 30 to offer a “democratic alternative” to the Global Education Meet scheduled to be held here on those days.The GEM is being organised by the State Higher Education Department and the Kerala State Higher Education Council.‘Not a commodity’The secretary of the Save Education Committee Shajar Khan said here that the People’s Education Meet would see the participation of intellectuals and educationist who are opposed to making education a commodity.“We would seek to highlight the fact that education is not a global commodity and that it cannot be given over to global capital. Education is a birthright of each citizen and should be scientific, secular and democratic.“The proposed GEM seeks to undermine this democratic nature of education as it exists in the country today,” Mr. Khan said.The People’s Education Meet would also issue a People’s Declaration for Democratic Education at the end of the Meet. The two main concepts of the GEM which make it a threat to democratic education are the setting of an Academic City Authority to act as a single window clearance system for setting up private universities and the setting up of international higher education zones along the lines of the special export processing zones.According to Mr. Khan, the plan is to provide infrastructural facilities free of cost to multinational companies so that they can set up learning centres in Kerala. Also on offer is a ten-year tax holiday for companies that set up shop in these zones.What’s more, these companies would have the full freedom to decide on the fee to be charged for their courses. This, according to Mr. Khan, would mean that only the rich and the privileged would be able to get admission to these centres.What is proposed in the higher education zones are commercial complexes sporting ‘smart’ classrooms, laboratories, food courts and recreation complexes. With this, the humanitarian element in higher education would be nullified.Whatever investment that multinational companies make in Kerala would be subject to the rules and regulations of the World Trade Organisation, he added.All India Save Education Committee will organise meet on Jan. 29 and 30.