http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/People-can-see-through-the-TRS-game-says-BJP/article14000270.ece

The TRS Government was singing a different tune with regard to the Seemandhra people, but citizens were intelligent enough to see through this duplicitous game. Hence, the Telugu Desam-Bharatiya Janata Party combine has a good chance of being elected to power in the GHMC polls as “people are with us”, said BJP’s Floor Leader in the Assembly, K. Laxman.“People will not easily forget the inflammatory statements, efforts to delete 6.3 lakh voters, fixing the year for Telangana nativity, selective fee reimbursement and more such acts of the TRS,” he pointed out at the ‘Meet the Media’ programme of the Telangana Working Journalists Federation (TWJF) and Hyderabad Union of Journalists (HUJ) here on Thursday.He claimed TRS lacked support here even during the peak of Telangana agitation and the entire purpose of the GHMC polls looks it is designed to “hand over power to the Majlis”. Instead of trying to contest the hustings on the plank of governance and development plans, it was using “backdoor methods”, he charged, and dared it to hold direct elections for Mayor and Deputy Mayor and test its strength.“People want security and stability and are aware TD-BJP combine can provide that. If polls are fair, we will win,” he asserted. From the delimitation of wards to the decision of reservation of wards for the SC/STs and BCs, everything was done secretly, he said, demanding that the TRS owed people an explanation of the process it had followed.Dr. Laxman accused Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao of not matching “his words with deeds”, pointing out large-scale hoardings and flexi posters of the Chief Minister all over the GHMC limits, which he had frowned on months before at the ‘Swacch Hyderabad’ meeting.Talks between the TD-BJP combine on seat-sharing were at an advanced stage and candidates will file nominations on January 16 and 17. “We are confident of our strength and citizens are well aware of the manner in which Hyderabad attained global recognition when Atal Behari Vajpayee was the Prime Minister and N. Chandrababu Naidu was Chief Minster here,” he explained.Vision documentA ‘Vision Document’ for the future development, listing out areas where further growth and improvement has to be taken up, will be released on January15. The TD-BJP manifesto will talk of steps to bring coordination among various Government departments, while tackling pollution and traffic movement.Modi to visit cityPrime Minister Narendra Modi will come here next month ‘irrespective of whether the TRS Government invites him or not’, claimed Dr. Laxman. “He will come for a party function if not for any Government programme. Why can’t the Government invite him to commission the Metro Rail project or to initiate the 30,000 houses for the poor sanctioned by the Centre,” he wondered.People want security and stability and are aware TD-BJP combine can provide that. If polls are fair, we will win.K. LaxmanBJP’s Floor Leader in the Assembly