http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/dance/Performances-galore/article13986356.ece

Various dancers from different parts of the country participated in ‘Natya Pravaha’ organised by Abhinetri Arts Academy run by Bharatanatyam dancer and guru Pramod Kumar Reddy. The event, held at Ravindra bharati last week, had three artistes performing each day in the tradition of ‘Margam’. Those who took part were Hyderabad-based artistes Hari Mangalampalli, Vamshi Madhavi, Harshika Kaza and Vaishnavi. Others were Revathi from Mumbai, Kalaivani from Vellore in Tamil Nadu and Archana from Chennai.The ‘margam’ method of Bharatanatyam presentation has a particular tradition of opening the dance with prayer in the form of pushpanjali and then instantly going for varnam that has an inbuilt structure of abhinaya for the thematic substance and place for skilful jatis long and short, culminating in perfect teermanams. It takes almost half the time of the artiste’s performance time. As to the varnam, most compositions are those that thematically present a heroine as lover of God - mostly Krishna, Siva and Kartikeya - in themes penned by revered poets ending the relationship as God and devotee. All the artistes figured in this three day fest followed the same ‘margam’ pattern and adding a javali or a padam and a tillana to the later part. Hari Mangalampalli’s was the first Bharatanatyam presentation literally opening the fest with his performance. He then presented Natakuranji Varnam in Hamsadhwani Tunga Tarange Gange of Sadasiva Brahmendra that brought in ‘Gangavataranam’ and other Siva related episodes for the dancer to relate. Vamsi Madhavi, opened her show dancing to slokas from Shyamala Dandakam and then went for varnam Sakhiye Inda Jalam Yenadi in Sankarabharanam, a Tamil composition tuned by Dandayudhapani Pillai. There was javali, Muttavaddura, choreographed by Bhriga Bessel weaving it around khandita nayika. Nattuvangam was by Sudarshini Iyer.Revathi Srinivasa Raghavan of Mumbai chose to present Navaragamalika varnam Samiyai Azhaitodi vaa of Dandayudhapani Pillai. The other artiste of the day Shalini Garipally of USA presented a composition of Arunachala Kavi. It ran more as a lively conversation between dancer as devotee and Lord Ranganatha.Harshita Kaza of Hyderabad presented Papanasam Sivan’s varnam written praising Cosmic Dancer Lord Nataraja, calling him with other attributes like ‘Ardha Nareeswara’ and ‘Gangadhara’.Kalaivani of Vellore began with a virutham and followed it with varnam Konjum Salangai composed by Madurai R Muralidharan in raga Lathangi. It was an amorous description of the attitude and attributes of Lord Shiva, extolling the glory of the Supreme Being.Archana Mahesh of Chennai opened with Oothukadu’s composition on Ganesha and then went for Muthiah Bhagavatar’s varnam that lauded the persona and powers of Goddess Meenakshi.Vaishnavi of Hyderabad presented the usual theme on Lord Muruga, with the heroine craving for his presence, as said in the varnam, portraying her as ‘Virahotkhantitha Nayika’.Each of these teams comprised talented accompanists whose contribution to these performances elevated the solo dancers’ efforts.