http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Photo-of-school-in-hut-spurs-Minister-into-action/article14018735.ece

A picture of students studying in a hut at Kattehole village in Hiriyur taluk of Chitradurga district was widely circulated on social networking sites recently to bring to light the apathy of the children.This caught the attention of Minister of State for Primary and Secondary Education Kimmane Ratnakar, who, almost by force of habit, promised immediate action. After seeking details from the Block Education Officer, however, he realised that it was a decade-old picture that was being circulated and students no longer study under a thatched roof. The new premises too is a temporary structure as the location comes under the reserve forest area.However, many of the students will thank the misinformation that was being spread on social media as the Minister has now said he would write to the Department of Forests to make an exception and allow the authorities to construct a full-fledged school building in place of the temporary structure.Police officer shunted outCan a police officer be punished for keeping the phone call of a Minister on hold?It is reported that Anupama Shenoy, Deputy Superintendent of Police, posted at Kudligi police sub-division in Ballari district, has been shunted out of the district for keeping the phone call of Minister of State for Labour P.T. Parameshwara Naik on hold and speaking to her higher officer. Mr. Naik, who is also in-charge Minister for Ballari, is said to have ensured her transfer within 24 hours for this “folly”.Sources said Ms. Shenoy received a call on her mobile phone from an unknown number and the person at the other end said the district in-charge Minister wanted to talk to her. She reportedly waited for 25 to 30 seconds, but as there was no response from the other side, she cut the call and attended another call from her higher officer. Within a few minutes, she received a call again and a livid Mr. Naik on the other end apparently asked her how dare she keep the district in-charge Minister waiting.Next day, Ms. Shenoy found herself transferred to Athani in Belagavi district. The Minister, however, has denied his involvement in the transfer, terming it a “routine administrative matter”.Give funds on meritWhile most of the government-funded literary and cultural bodies resist the idea of the government monitoring their activities, it is not so in case of Da.Ra. Bendre National Memorial Trust chairman Shyamasundar Bidarakundi. The government is evaluating the performances of various trusts funded by the Department of Kannada and Culture. Mr. Bidarakundi said the government should evaluate the performance of the trusts and release funds accordingly. The present system of releasing uniform amount for all the trust was not logical. For, this would make pro-active trusts suffer. There are trusts whose funds lapse every year.The government has decided to form a panel to evaluate the works of the State universities before funding them, and the same needs to be followed in case of literary and cultural trusts also and funds released based on merit, he has said. It remains to be seen whether the government welcomes Mr. Bidarakundi’s suggestion and prepare a “merit list” in matters of funding, if not appointments.Liquor politicsChief Minister Siddaramaiah’s move to grant licences to more liquor shops has invoked the Opposition’s wrath. Opposition Leader in the Assembly Jagadish Shettar hit out at the Chief Minister and said the decision would “sound the death knell for poor women”.There was no substance in the Chief Minister’s justification that now liquor was available at ‘kirana’ (neighbourhood) shops owing to fewer liquor outlets. The BJP leader asked, “If he (the CM) knows that liquor is being sold in places where it should not be, then the government should stop such illegal sale rather than open new shops. If he cannot do that, why does he continue to be the Chief Minister?”While the Opposition believes the government has done it to increase tax revenue as the government is facing fund crunch, Social Welfare Minister H. Anjaneya defended his boss saying new shops would curb the illegal sale of liquor in general shops. When asked if increasing licensed shops will stop illegal sale of liquor, Mr. Anjaneya had no answer but just laughed aloud.Tanu Kulkarni,Nagesh Prabhu,N. Dinesh Nayak, andFiroz Rozindar