http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/Plans-to-set-up-10-more-fire-stations/article13985594.ece

Home Minister Nayini Narsimha Reddy said that the government will establish one fire station in every Assembly constituency and if 10 more were set up all constituencies would have fire stations in the State. In the coming budget, funds would be allocated for the completion of this task, he said.Addressing the gathering after inaugurating the newly-built fire station, here on Wednesday, he said that the government would think over the proposal to build fire stations in every mandal in coming years. As of now in this district, there are seven fire stations and some are functioning even on the basis of outsourcing system, he added.“We will also provide new buildings with compound walls for fire stations in Nizamabad constituency, Bodhan, Armoor, Kamareddi, Banswada and Bheemgal towns. The proposal to establish one fire station for a population of 50,000 is with the government,” said the Home Minister.Mr. Narsimha Reddy said that the firemen were rendering their services not only during the fire mishaps, but also in natural calamities. Thus, so far, in the State they extinguished fires at 10,000 residences and business establishments and protected 11 human lives and property worth Rs.6 crore. The firemen had always been ready to rescue the people stranded in natural calamities and fire accidents, he said.Local legislator Bigala Ganesh Gupta presided over the meeting.Collector Yogitha Rana, Superintendent of Police S. Chandrashekar Reddy and MLC Akula Lalitha Raghavender also spoke.Collector praised the State Disaster Response and Fire Services Department for its contribution not only in bringing the rising flames under control when fires broke out, but also watering the saplings planted as part of the Haritha Haram Programme.The SP said that the department rendered excellent services when houses were razed to the ground due to floods and other reasons.Ms. Lalitha wanted the government to set up one fire station in each mandal and ensure the supply of sufficient quantity of water for the service.Zilla Parishad chairman D. Raju, Mayor Akula Sujatha, Regional Fire Officer V. Nagarjuna Reddy and District Fire Officer Madhusudhan Rao also participated.