http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/sport/Players-out-to-impress-selectors-scouts/article13999573.ece

In sport, timing is everything. The BCCI deserves credit for that, as far as the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy tournament is concerned. Hitherto known as the deprived and forgotten sibling of the IPL, the inter-state Twenty20 tournament has finally found its place in the sun due to a tweak in format and scheduling.Those mundane zonal affairs are a thing of the past. The preliminary round (27 teams divided into four highly-competitive groups) has thrown up eight challengers for the business end of the tournament.The Super League kicks off on Friday, giving both the players and those following them a renewed sense of purpose and perspective.With the Asia Cup T20, the World T20 and the IPL all set to be held over the next few months, the Super League could not have been timed better.The IPL auctions are on February 6, and don’t be surprised if you spot a John Wright at the Wankhede or some other talent-spotter at the Sharad Pawar CA.Baroda will field the same bunch of players from the group phase. Led by a rejuvenated Irfan Pathan and coached by Jacob Martin, the two-time champion has the in-form Hardik Pandya in the squad.A handy medium-pacer, he struck form with the bat in three of the four games, and will be in the spotlight after his recent selection for the T20s in Australia.The Mumbai Indians all-rounder will be in action at the Wankhede, MI’s home base for six weeks every summer. “Hardik gives a lot of confidence to the side, both with his batting and bowling,” said Jacob Martin, who promoted Pandya to No.3.“We play to win, and I see no reason why that cannot happen again. Our side has experience and young talent,” added Martin, whose team takes on Vidarbha in the opener on Friday.The second match at the Wankhede will feature Kerala and host Mumbai.Gujarat takes on Delhi at the BKC. That game will be followed by Uttar Pradesh versus Jharkhand.Mumbai coach Chandrakant Pandit, who was the Kerala Cricket Association’s director of cricket last season, will bump into some familiar faces on Friday.“The Kerala team is familiar to me, but that matters little in the T20 format,” said the former India stumper.Shreyas Iyer is the player he will count on. “We have good depth in batting. Shreyas is scoring quickly in the first six overs, and that is helping the team,” Pandit said.Medium-pacers Shashank Singh and Shivam Dubey are the additions to the Mumbai squad.Pandit said Kerala could be a dangerous team, especially with Sanju Samson in form.Captained by Sachin Baby, talented players like Prashanth Padmanabhan and Rohan Prem are on the lookout for every opportunity ahead of the IPL auction.