http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/Play-on/article13999535.ece

The debate on intolerance will adorn a different hue when noted director Sayeed Alam brings forth the Mughal emperor, Akbar’s deep loathing for religious intolerance and bigotry and also transports play lovers to the world of Mughal kings from Babur to Bahadur Shah Zafar in the critically acclaimed play “Sons of Babur”.Five years and 45 shows later the play will be staged in Gurgaon on January 16 and in Delhi on January 17 with the inimitable Tom Alter playing the lead role of the deposed and exiled Mughal emperor, Bahadur Shah Zafar. Running the play for the last five years has seen a lot of change in the cast except for Tom who continues to play the lead and guide the team members.Written by Salman Khurshid, the former External Affairs minister and adapted for stage by the Sahitya Akademi Award winner, Ather Farouqui, the play has been dogged by protests and controversies in Gujarat and Maharashtra.“Praveen Togadia of the VHP called this play anti-Hindu and encouraged protests in Mumbai but we still went ahead and performed to a full house. We don’t thrive on negative publicity to fill the seats of the theatre. People come to watch it because it has become more relevant now as debate on intolerance rages in the country. I am geared up to face disruptions and protests and if required I will stage the play on my terrace but will not cancel any shows,” says Sayeed.Sayeed feels that “Sons of Babur” is perhaps the first ever play which comprehensively deals with the Mughal era beginning with Babur till the last great Mughal, Bahadur Shah Zafar in a critical, fair and hugely entertaining manner. The two-hour play centres around Bahadur Shah Zafar, the last Mughal emperor, languishing in exile in Rangoon. Without sounding preachy, the dialogue between Zafar and his admirer, a history scholar Rudrananth Mitra touches upon issues of intolerance, the secular credentials of the country, the duties and responsibilities of the ruler as he takes the young scholar on a guided tour of the Mughal era without whitewashing the darker aspects of Mughal rule.Zafar shows Rudrananth Mitra not only the greatness of his forefathers but is critical of the follies and foibles of his predecessors. He wants to be remembered not only as the last great Mughal ruler but also as the first emperor of a democratic India.“The format of the play, an effortless swing between fantasy and reality, past and present, logic and emotion, fact and fiction has been appreciated by the audience. The issues that are raised in the play resonate well with the political climate and debates in the country and has kept us going for the last five years. Like all my other plays which have been running successfully for the last 18 years, I hope to take this play not only to different parts of India but also to foreign shores and we begin our out of the country journey with a performance in Jeddah soon,” says Sayeed with a broad smile.