http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Plachimada-wants-to-break-the-deadlock/article14002737.ece

The impasse over getting President’s assent for the Plachimada tribunal Bill, passed by the Kerala Assembly unanimously five years ago, has evoked resentment among the victims of the groundwater exploitation and pollution caused by Coca-Cola in the border village. Though more than a year has gone since the Union Home Ministry returned the Bill without forwarding it to the President, the State government is still groping in the dark for a way ahead. And major political parties are keeping mum over the delicate issue.The Plachimada Samara Samithy and the solidarity committee want the State government to move a resolution in the coming Assembly session urging the Home Ministry to send the Bill for President’s approval. “The budget session would be the final one of the present Assembly. A unanimous resolution seeking implementation of the Bill would help ensure justice for the victims. Any delay would make the situation more complex,” says Vilayodi Venugopal, chairman of the samithy.Passed in 2011The Home Ministry has been sitting on the Bill ever since it was passed in 2011. It was in December 2014 the Ministry returned the Bill to the State government directing it to approach the National Green Tribunal (NGT). “The Plachimada Coca-Cola Victims’ Relief and Compensation Tribunal Bill, 2011 is not getting implemented because of the lack of sincerity on the part of the governments and political parties. A Bill passed by a State legislature should have been forwarded to the President for assent within six weeks. The Centre’s refusal to do so is unconstitutional. We strongly believe that the Cola giant has influenced the Union government,” says Arumughan Pathichira, leader of the solidarity committee.According to samithi chairman Vilayodi Venugopal, the directive to approach the NGT is part of an attempt to deny justice as the State government and the local community have given satisfactory replies to queries from the tribunal. The Bill, the outcome of a protracted people's struggle, saw the Coca-Cola unit closing down in 2005.