http://www.thehindu.com/features/kids/Ploughing-on-tyrelessly/article14024617.ece

Anubhav Wadhwa isn’t your typical teen. At 16, he is working to save the environment and trying to preserve it from degradation. He made headlines when he started Tyrelessly, a company that recycles old and used tyres.The seed for Tyrelessly was sown when Wadhwa, a student of Pathways World School, Aravali, Haryana, saw someone setting a couple of tyres on fire. He thought about what happens to tyres once they have outlived their usefulness. He went online to learn more about this.He learned that burning tyres released a number of toxic gases into the air leading to an environmental hazard. He decided to start Tyrelessly, in the hope that this practice could be stopped. His company was started on December 15, 2015 and soon the first pilot was rolled out.A step forwardWadhwa elaborates on how a majority of industries, especially the sugarcane industry, burns tyres causing harm to the environment. He says employing pyrolysis will be more effective. Through his website Tyrelessly, anyone can request for old tyres to be picked up. “Once the tyre is picked up, it is sent to a recycling plant and will undergo pyrolysis. This is an extraction process which can convert tyres into usable by-products like fuel oils, steel and so on,” he explains.The organisation operates from Delhi. However, by February, this year, the services may expand to other cities as well. While the services offered are free of charge, Wadhwa is hopeful that through advertisements on the website, as well as sale of recycled products, he will be able to raise adequate revenue. The youngster believes that students can play a pivotal role in increasing the rate of recycling old tyres.He and his team are now involved in educating people about the risks of burning tyres. The members of the organisation aim to boost tyre recycling rates in at least 100 communities, and also help launch new programmes in communities across the country.Tyrelessly is not the only organisation founded by Wadhwa.He is also the founder and CEO of software firm, TechAPTO. Wadhwa’s day starts at 6.30 a.m. He attends school, where apart from academics, he is also a member of the student council and assists his teachers with projects. He returns home by 5 p.m and transforms from a student and becomes entrepreneur, designer, data analyst, computer programmer and social activist, all in one.