http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/PLURALIST-TRADITION-OF-THE-ARTS/article14018904.ece

mong the 10,000-odd spectators watching the Group Dance competition at the 56th State School Arts Festival at the Putharikandam ground here on Sunday was a middle-aged man named V.P. Alavikutti. Hardly anyone recognised him as the father of the two girls who had to face a lot of trouble from their community for learning classical dances such as Bharatanatyam, Mohiniyattam and Kerala Nadanam.Both his daughters, V.P. Rubiya and V.P. Mansiya, are former winners at the State festival. “The troubles started for our family in our village of Velluvamburam in Malappuram the moment the news of Rubiya’s victory at the 2006 school festival came in,” says Alavikutti. “Not many had known then that the girls had been learning the dance forms associated with the Hindu religion; things became so bad that I had to perform the burial of my wife at a mosque outside our locality.”He said he was fascinated with classical dances from a young age. “I cannot understand why a Muslim boy or girl cannot learn Bharatanatyam or Mohiniyattam; after watching the school festival for years, I had decided that I would make my daughters learn classical dance,” he says. “Religion and art should co-exist peacefully.”The State school festival has been showing us how it could be done all these decades. When a Muslim boy, A.L. Feroze, won the first prize in Kathakali in 1979, it was talked about greatly, in the positive sense, that is. When St. Joseph's High School, Kalamassery, won the first prize in Oppana, it too made news, as not a single girl on the team was a Muslim, the religion associated with the art form. Even now, Muslim girls continue to learn Thiruvathirakkali. Hindu and Christian boys perform traditional Muslim arts like Kolkali and Arabanamuttu.“I have taught classical dances to some talented Muslim girls, like Neethu Shanavas,” says veteran dance teacher Girija Chandran. “I also had a student from Palakkad some time back, called Shabnam. The girls danced because their parents were extremely supportive.” Just as Alavikutti is. It is his encouragement that made the two sisters take up dance as a career. While Rubiya has done her M.A. in Bharatanatyam from Annamalai University, Chidambaram, Mansiya is pursuing her master’s in dance at Madras University, Chennai.“I have had to go through quite a few problems because I chose to learn classical dance,” says Mansiya. “But, they have only made my resolve to make dance my life stronger.”Her words make the school festival more meaningful.