http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/PM-satisfied-with-response-of-forces/article13990697.ece

A week after the terrorist attack on the Pathankot Air Force station, Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited the base on Saturday and “noted with satisfaction the decision-making and its execution” and the “considerations that went into our tactical response” (to the terror strike).The visit comes at a time when his government is facing strong public criticism over the manner in which the attack was handled despite having prior intelligence alerts.He was accompanied by National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval, who oversaw the operations and has been under fire from experts for the lapses. “Visited Pathankot airbase today. Had a detailed briefing from senior leadership of Army, Air Force, NSG & BSF. Was briefed in great detail on how our forces neutralised such a serious terrorist attack,” Mr. Modi tweeted after the visit. Mr. Modi also visited the site where two terrorists were holed up.After visiting the base, Mr. Modi undertook an aerial survey of the Indo-Pak border areas where he was shown the area of possible infiltration before returning to Delhi.“Also noted coordination among various field units. Lauded bravery & determination of our men & women on the ground. They are our pride,” Mr. Modi added in another tweet.Several experts have questioned the employment of the National Security Guard and Garud commandos in the operations and the lack of a unified command and control structure with several agencies deployed there.Barely a week after Mr. Modi’s surprise stop at Lahore on Christmas eve on the way back from Kabul, six terrorists, allegedly owing allegiance to the Jaish-e-Mohammed, breached the perimeter of the air base, one of Air Force’s key bases on the Western border. While all the terrorists were finally gunned down, seven security personnel were killed and another 20 injured in the four-day standoff. On Friday, security agencies declared that sanitisation of the base was complete.India has already furnished evidence to Pakistan on the attack, which includes intercepts of telephone calls between the terrorists and their handlers in Pakistan as well as details of arms and ammunition made in Pakistan.The visit also comes a day after Pakistan Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif held a meeting with Army Chief Raheel Sharif, the second in as many days, to “review progress” on the leads provided by India on the attack.