http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/Poised-for-the-next-step/article13988464.ece

In her presidential address at the 33rd annual conference of the Tamil Isai Sangam in Madras on December 21, 1975, T. Balasaraswati said, “Young dancers who go in for novelties find that their razzle-dazzle does not last long. On the other hand, if they hold firm to the tradition… they will gain for themselves and those who watch them the dignity and joy of Bharatanatyam… the young will recognise the greatness of this art if they study it with intense participation, calmly and without haste.”Whether there is novelty in the art and in which form calls for a separate story, but Balasaraswati’s comment on intense participation holds truer today than ever before.Forty years after that speech — when she and her contemporaries gave way to the next generation of dancers, who in turn became legends and are now giving way to a new crop of dancers — the number of Bharatanatyam performers has grown exponentially. There are more opportunities now, greater competition, greater emphasis on technique, and also some confusion for the rasikas, who are all spoilt for choice. But how dedicated are these young performers? Do they see Bharatanatyam as a hobby or as a career? What challenges do they face in these competitive times?Medha Hari, a student of Anita Guha, says the spurt in opportunities has helped dancers discover their strengths and weaknesses. “Natyarangam, for instance, picked out a couple of dancers and gave them each a theme,” she says. “They were asked to choreograph only for Bharatiyar songs, which is a challenge. But you realise what you’re capable of at times like these and that’s a very positive trend for serious young dancers.”But isn’t the wide range of opportunities a mixed blessing? She pauses. “It most certainly affects quality,” she concedes. Senior dancers often bemoan this dip in quality, but this is perhaps because of new factors that are affecting creativity. Sabhas, some of them say, do not sift carefully through the hundreds of applications they receive, to choose the best performers.Natyacharya V.P. Dhananjayan says, “Some sabhas don’t take the effort to know about the quality of dancers. If they were more judicious in their selection process, there would be less mediocrity.”Public relations and social media are also forces to contend with in these times, says Alarmel Valli. “PR and marketing have become vital factors in achieving recognition these days. It can unfortunately be a double-edged sword. Too much time spent on PR can adversely impact creativity and depth of performance. Talented dancers who lack PR skills are at a disadvantage and may get left behind in the race. Also, it’s possible, to manipulate social media to project a misleading image of oneself. True achievement, cannot be reduced to the number of hits one receives on YouTube.”But there is no doubt that social media has also helped dancers draw attention to their talent and reach out to their rasikas. Sumithra Subramaniam, a disciple of Jayanthi Subramaniam and who is based in Austin, Texas, says social media cannot be ignored nowadays even if it is a double-edged sword.And how do young performers strike a balance between maintaining tradition and bringing in innovation? Says Swetha Prachande, a disciple of Priyadarsini Govind: “It is an individual’s choice as to how he or she chooses to express ideas on stage while remaining true to the aesthetics of dance. Understanding each aspect of the piece is the key before working on new ideas.”Youngsters do innovate, but they need to push the boundaries, says Dhananjayan. “Merely performing to a different song is not enough. The subjects must also change, that’ll bring about novelty,” he says.But Krithika Shurajit, disciple and daughter of Radhika Shurajit, says some dancers do attempt unusual, unexplored themes: “You see pieces on female infanticide, women’s rights, global warming. If the younger dancers only stuck to the Mahabharata and Gita Govindam, there would not be anything different for the audience. Plus, how can we redo these epics when the seniors do them so well?”“With thousands of dancers clamouring to make their presence felt, the tendency is to opt for the most sensationalistic formulae — higher jumps, longer leaps, more dramatic stretches. But this is often, sadly, at the cost of the nuances, grace and subtexts so intrinsic to the form,” says Valli. Yet, it is impressive how sabhas are striving to promote the art form and maintain its importance. This is evident in their schedules: Brahma Gana Sabha, for instance, has scheduled more than 80 performances this month; Bharat Kalachar, from December 7 to January 15, has scheduled more than 70. And these are just two sabhas.Swetha calls the rise in the number of slots “healthy” — these are indications of better times to come. “And what can sabhas do,” Sumithra asks. “There are too many dancers and they all can’t be given the prestigious evening slot.” While agreeing that many of them are talented, Valli sounds a note of caution: “These are positive developments, but if only the louder, aggressive, sensationalist form of dance is avoided,” she says.But young performers often have the added pressure of another job. Medha, for instance, is a chartered accountant, but “dance comes first,” she says. Krithika says many dancers are also painters, journalists, and poets, but “it’s a good thing, as this creativity spills over into dance.”However, there’s no doubt that a bunch of talented artists are waiting in the wings, many of them conscientious, passionate, and determined to make a mark.