http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/Police-chief-speaks-his-mind/article13982535.ece

: Just a few weeks from retiring, the Delhi Police Commissioner on Monday spoke the language of the masses when it comes to dealing with rapists.Referring to the perpetrators of heinous crimes against women, B.S. Bassi said that the Delhi Police would not mind exercising an opportunity to shoot or hang them on the spot if permitted by the Constitution.The commissioner was speaking at the Delhi Police’s annual press conference, usually scheduled in the first or second week of January.Bassi went on elaborate his perception of rapists, saying they do not even see the women in their own families in the correct light.“Each locality has between 250 and 400 men who look at all women around them in the same way they see women in a porn film. They see a two-year-old child or an 80-year-old woman as sexual objects,” he said.The best solution to preventing rapes, in Mr. Bassi’s opinion, was to train all women in the age group 15-35 such that each of them would be able to physically thrash as many as four men at once.“They (the rapists) are not going to change anytime soon,” the officer said.In an obvious reference to the Aam Adami Party (AAP) government in Delhi, he urged the senior officers in his force to take up the responsibility of women’s safety without relying on any other agency.“Unlike some others, the Delhi Police do not shed crocodile tears for women. Instead, we worry about and work for their safety,” Mr. Bassi said.Continuing his dig at the Delhi government, with whom he has shared a strained relationship, Bassi said it was Delhi’s “good fortune” that the Delhi Police did not work under the state government. “There is no pressure on us due to local issues and we are able to work without the constant fear of being transferred or suspended just for the sake of appeasing the public,” Mr. Bassi said.He conceded there was still pressure on the force, but they were able to evade them since they were not local in nature.“The current prime minister has no local interest in Delhi’s affairs. The situation could be different if the PM hailed from Delhi,” he said.For possibly the first time since the talks over his post-retirement job, Mr. Bassi on Monday also opened up on the issue without going into specifics.“If I get an opportunity to serve the country even after my retirement, why should I not take it? But no worries even if I do not get such an opportunity,” he said while replying to a journalist’s query.Several news reports in the past few months have suggested that Mr. Bassi has been playing to the BJP’s tune in a bid to bag the Chief Information Commissioner’s (CIC) job after his retirement in February this year.Just a few weeks from retirement, top cop speaks his mind at Delhi Police’s annual presser