http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Mangalore/Police-crack-double-murder-case/article14002277.ece

The Belthangady police have arrested a resident of Gadag district in connection with the murder of an elderly couple in a village near Beltangady on January 11.K.V. Varky (80) and his wife, Elikutty (72), who were staying alone in a house, were murdered in Kakkinje village. While Varky’s body was found 100 metres away from the house, his wife’s body was found in a room in the house.Superintendent of Police Sharanappa S.D. gave the name of the accused as Ravi alias Raju Kallavaddar (26). So far the police have found his involvement in about 15 cases of theft registered in Hubballi and Gadag. Arrest warrants were issued in eight cases. He had been involved in criminal activities since he was a juvenile, Mr. Sharanappa said.He told presspersons that Ravi was working as a construction labour in Belthangady for the past one month. He used to come to Kakkinje village regularly for breakfast and lunch. He had noticed the couple being alone in the house and targeted them on the night of January 10.That day Varky came out of the house seeing the accused roaming outside. On the pretext of asking directions to a place, the accused took Varky towards the road and hit him with a stick.As Varky collapsed, the accused strangled him to death. The accused then went inside the house and murdered Elikutty before making away with gold ornaments and other valuables, he said.Mr. Sharanappa said separate teams were assigned to trace the accused. Based on finger prints, technical evidence and information gathered from local people, the police traced Ravi and arrested him. The police are taking the custody of the accused to find if he has been involved in other cases. They are yet to recover the articles stolen from Varky’s house, he said.He commended the efforts put in by Assistant Superintendent of Police Rahul Kumar, Deputy Superintendent of Police (Finger Prints section) A.C. Gourish, inspector B.R. Lingappa, sub-inspector Sandesh P.G and others involved in cracking the case.