http://www.thehindu.com/features/downtown/Police-give-shopkeepers-tips-on-staying-safe/article13990314.ece

Officials of J 8 Neelankarai Police Station are sensitising traders to the need to install CCTV cameras at their shops. Recently, M.S. Bhaskar, Inspector of Police, met traders and vendors along East Coast Road to provide them tips on staying safe.Over 80 traders along East Coast Road took part in the meet in Chinna Neelankarai.They included owners of departmental stores, jewellery shops, vegetable super markets and medical shops.“Over the last two years, we have organised many such awareness programmes. Response of residents’ welfare associations to the sensitisation programme has been good. Many neighbourhoods have installed CCTV cameras in their streets now. It includes Palakalai Nagar association (26); AGS Colony association (16); Coronet Garden association (9) and Olive Beach association (17),” said Mr. Bhaskar.The officials advised the vendors to also install the device.Citing various cases, the police explained how CCTV cameras would not serve the purpose if they were not installed at the right place.“Most of the installations focussed inward, covering the interior portion of a house. Cameras should also cover part of the road,” he said. Another aspect the officials insisted on was the maintenance of the device. It needs to be checked at regular intervals.“If the device needs to be repaired, the police department will do the service free of cost,” said the official.The officials also called attention to a Government Order passed in 2012 which ruled that installation of CCTV cameras was a prerequisite to obtaining licence, in places and buildings where a large gathering of people is expected.Earlier, similar meets were organised for pawn brokers, bank officials, owners of amusement parks and resorts, restaurants, auto drivers, senior-citizens, staff of hospitals and educational institutions.Deputy Commissioner D. Kannan and Assistant Commissioner of Police Shankar presided over the programme.