http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/Polling-stations-to-be-voter-friendly/article13989204.ece

Two years after the previous elected body’s term got over, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) will be going to the polls in less than a month from now. In this interview, State Election Commissioner V. Nagi Reddy gives an insight into what makes this election special.Was there any delay in issuing the notification?We have been ready and were waiting for the wards reservation to be announced.In what way is the GHMC election different from other polls?Hyderabad is a mini-India and election is totally urbanised although it is spread across three districts. We have highly educated voters too, awareness is high but voting percentage poor. We are hoping to see a higher turnout of up to 70 per cent (43 per cent in 2009) this time like it had happened with the Bangalore municipal corporation recently.How are you going to lure voters to the polling stations?Citizens complain about roads, sewage, traffic, water etc., so this is the right time to exercise their franchise and elect candidates of their choice to make their voice heard. We are going to make the voter comfortable by providing drinking water and washroom facility at each polling station. We will also have volunteers to guide them with a few seats for the elderly.We are also going to ensure no polling station is more than one kilometre away. You can also check out polling station site on our website (tsec.gov.in) and take the voters slip.What are new features of the civic poll this time?For this election, there will be a Returning Officer for every ward instead of having one RO for three to four wards as done earlier. The idea is to have one senior official pay complete attention to the poll process in his area. We have also made electoral rolls easy to verify even on our website. There will mostly be one counting centre for each ward.We have also minimised the tolerance level of any errors happening on poll day to 0.1 per cent from the earlier two per cent to arrest any kind of malpractice at the polling station.Will the SEC be using brand new Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) with slip facility?We have sought 5,000 new EVMs but these will not be available for the GHMC polls. Otherwise, we will use 12,000 EVMs of our own, sourcing 10,000 machines from the Election Commission of India (some of which were used in the general elections) and 2,000 EVMs from Maharashtra.