http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/Police-release-suicide-note-of-Peddapalli-SI/article13991340.ece

Following allegations over the alleged suicide of Peddapalli Sub-Inspector Jaganmohan on Friday, the Karimnagar district police released the suicide note written by the SI on Saturday evening.In the suicide note, the SI stated that he had decided to commit suicide when a person had died in police custody when he was working in Dharmapuri police station. Apologising to all his family members and friends for resorting to this extreme step, he said that “no one is responsible for my death.”He also appealed to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to withdraw the Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) case registered against his brother Kiran Kumar, who was trapped by the ACB when he was working as the SI in Gudihathnoor police station in Adilabad district.He said that the SIs and SHOs workload was increasing in all the police stations.Conveying regret if his death causes any problems to the people of Peddapalli during his tenure as SI, he said that he was unable to get a good name before Superintendent of Police D. Joel Davis. “The SP is a nice person. But I brought a stigma that an SI had committed suicide during his tenure in the district,” the note stated.He also mentioned that Peddapalli legislator D. Manohar Reddy and his superior officers such as CIs T. Srinivas Rao, Prashanth Reddy, and A. Mahesh were good persons.‘Murder, not suicide’Earlier, TDP district president Ch Jaganmohan Rao alleged that “SI Jaganmohan has not committed suicide, it is a murder caused due to the harassment by Peddapalli legislator Mr. Manohar Reddy and his brother.” Talking to newsmen here on Saturday, he charged that the local legislator was responsible for the death of a bright SI, who was sincere in his duties, and demanded that the police register a murder case. He said that the police officials were tampering the suicide note to protect the elected representatives. Alleging that the Peddapalli legislator was reigning terror in his constituency by dictating terms for the transfer of all the police officials in his constituency, he said that the MLA was not allowing any police personnel to complete at least two years service in the constituency. He also charged the legislator of forcing the police higher-ups for the transfer of the SI.In the meantime, the last rites of Jaganmohan were performed in Karimnagar town on Saturday. Karimnagar in-charge DIG Malla Reddy, SP D. Joel Davis, OSD L. Subbarayudu and others attended and consoled the bereaved family members.SI Jaganmohan has not committed suicide, it is a murder caused due to the harassment by Peddapalli legislator D. Manohar Reddy and his brother.Ch Jaganmohan RaoTDP district president