http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Mangalore/Police-may-not-impose-fine-on-pillion-riders-not-wearing-helmets-yet/article13992941.ece

Two-wheeler riders in the city can heave a sigh of relief albeit for some days as the government will not impose fine on them even if pillion riders do not wear helmets.Instead, both the Police and the Transport departments will create awareness on the need to wear helmets during the grace period.Both the departments have not arrived at a consensus on when exactly fine should be imposed for violations.If the Police Department was vague in its stand stating that it would impose fine only after a few days, the Transport Department had some clarity saying that the enforcement would start after two months.The new rule has been introduced following directions from the Supreme Court Committee on Road Safety. The government has notified that the new rule will come into effect on Tuesday.Mangaluru Police Commissioner S. Chandra Sekhar said that the police will create awareness among motorists of the importance of the new rule.“We will conduct an awareness drive for the next few days and then enforce the rule,” he told The Hindu .Dakshina Kannada Superintendent of Police Sharanappa S.D. said that the police will enforce the rule in phases as two-wheeler riders were yet to get used to the idea of wearing helmets while riding in rural areas.“We have to first carry out a drive to help riders in the taluk headquarters use helmets. We will slowly move to the rural areas and also enforce the new rule,” he said.Meanwhile, Senior Regional Transport Officer, Mangaluru, G.S. Hegde said that the transport department will start a week-long awareness drive on Tuesday. Pamphlets will distributed among motorists highlighting the importance of wearing helmets while riding. “We will make people aware of the new rule during this week and then warn motorists in case of violation in the next two months. We will start penalising violators after two months,” Mr. Hedge said.The police said that if pillion riders were children they too would have to wear helmets.But the issue was regarding whether helmets for children were available in the market. Mr. Hegde said that availability of helmets for children in the market was yet to be ascertained by the Transport Department.