http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/Police-was-keeping-eye-on-terror-suspect/article13988989.ece

The city police had been keeping an eye on Anzar Shah Khasmi, who was picked up by Delhi Anti Terrorist Cell from his residence in Ilyas Nagar for alleged links with al Qaeda in the Indian sub-continent (AQIS).Police Commissioner N.S. Megharik said that he was under watch for his hate speeches but the police were not aware of his terror links. A senior official said that the jurisdictional Kumaraswamy Layout police used to monitor him and prepared a dossier about his activities.“The police had even met members of the mosque committee and sought details about him. But before the dossier was submitted, the Delhi Police picked him up since they had concrete evidence about his terror links,” the officer said.According to police sources, Khasmi is from Shivajinagar.He had studied in Deoband in Uttar Pradesh for two years before starting his career. He served as imam and khatib in various mosques.Infamous for inflammatory speechesKhasmi was sacked from Tilak Nagar mosque for making inflammatory hate speeches. He later joined Mecca Mosque where he started teaching in the madrasa.However, he was again sacked for hate speeches. Nayaz Pasha, head of Mecca Mosque, said that the mosque committee had even informed the jurisdictional police about this development.Khasmi was reinstated following an apology.Mr. Pasha said, “We told him in no uncertain terms not to make hate speeches. Even the police used to keep tabs on him and record his Friday discourses.”On Friday, anxious residents of Ilyas Nagar gathered at the mosque after hearing about his arrest. Mohammed Ali, one of the residents, said that the moulvi was orthodox and used to pull up members of the community for not following religious tenets. “He was a morally upright person. It is hard to believe that he was involved in anti-national activities,” he said.Suspect in police custodyKhasmi was produced before a court on Friday and was remanded in police custody till January 20.The Delhi Police’s special cell had in December 2015 arrested two suspected AQIS operatives Zafar Masood and Abdul Rehman. During questioning, they are believed to have mentioned Khasmi. Sources said that Khasmi is suspected of being responsible for the logistics of the group, recruiting a man from Hyderabad and sending him to Pakistan for terror training.