http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/Police-advisory-to-avoid-traffic-jam/article13975819.ece

The city police have issued advisory warning motorists of traffic slowdowns and jams in view of the 76th All India Industrial Exhibition, popularly known as Numaish, being held from January 1 to February 15.The police have asked people to avoid the road stretch from Mozamjahi market to Nampally junction during the next 45 days between 4 p.m. and midnight.Motorists coming from Putlibowli and going towards Nampally can take an alternative route via M.J. Market and Abids while traffic coming from police control road and Fateh Maidan towards Gandhi Bhavan and M.J. Market can take the Gunfoundary and Abids road.Similarly, the traffic coming from M.J. Bridge towards Nampally can take alternative route via Begum Bazar Chatri – Alaska – Darussalam right turn – Ek Minar Mosque-Railway Station – Nampally. And traffic coming from Chaderghat bridge side and intending to proceed towards Saifabad can take route via, Chaderghat Bridge – DMHS, Koti- right turn- Sultan Bazar- King Koti crossroads – backside of Nizam College – Basheerbagh – PCR – Saifabad.Vehicles coming from Bahudurpura side and intending to proceed towards Nampally side can take alternative route via Puranapul – Mangalghat – Aghapura – Darusalam – Ekminar Mosque- Railway Station – Nampally while traffic coming from Saifabad side and intending to proceed to Rajendra Nagar side can take Ravindra Bharati-Lakdi-ka-pul- Ayodhya – Masab Tank flyover – Mehdipatnam- Moghal Ka Nala – Attapur – Rajendra Nagar road stretch.Traffic coming from Mehdipatnam side and intending to proceed towards Charminar side can take the route via., Mehdipatnam, Asifnagar Road- Bhoiguda Kaman- Mangalghat- Puranapul- Moosa Bowli Road- Chowk – Khilwath- Charminar.The police have also restricted the movement of RTC district buses, private buses, and heavy vehicles. These vehicles heading towards the M.J. Market from S.A. Bazar and Jambagh Road and intending to go towards Nampally will be diverted towards Abids at M.J. Market Junction from 4 p.m. to midnight daily till the completion of the All India Industrial Exhibition. Vehicles coming from the Police Control Room, Fateh Maidan, and intending to go towards Nampally and M.J. Market will be diverted at A.R Petrol Pump towards B.J.R. Statue.