http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Police-to-file-charge-sheet-in-2012-heist-case/article14013083.ece

The police have decided to file a charge sheet in connection with a heist in the Kadaganchi branch of State Bank of India in Aland taluk in Kalaburagi district in 2012.Valuables worth over Rs. 1.78 crore, including cash kept in a cash chest and gold ornaments in lockers, were looted by an inter-State gang. The police, who began the investigation without a solid lead, were successful in cracking the case, but could not arrest all those involved in the crime. Also, they could recover only a small portion of the looted money and gold ornaments.According to Superintendent of Police Amit Singh, a special team appointed to investigate the case arrested seven persons, all from Kalaburagi city. But, four others hailing from neighbouring Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, could not be arrested so far.Mr Singh told The Hindu on Thursday that the police managed to recover only Rs. 7.85 lakh of the Rs. 46.43 lakh looted from the cash chest and 310 grams of gold of the 4.5 kg of gold ornaments looted from the lockers.A major portion of the looted money and valuables were taken away by the four fugitives from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh whose full identity or address was not available. They could not be arrested as the information provided about them by the arrested persons was sketchy. Though the police visited parts of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh in the past three years, they could not be picked up.Also, though the police arrested seven persons in connection with the heist, they managed to secure bail after a few months. Three of them jumped bail and are absconding.The accused arrested in connection with the heist and released on bail who were reporting to the police station are Abdul Khader, Moinuddin, Rukmuddin, Revanasidda. Mohammad Khaleed, Kala Mehboobsab and Mohammad Baba had jumped bail and were absconding.The burglars entered into the bank in the early hours of a weekend from the unguarded backdoor.They first broke open the lock of a mild steel collapsible gate and then the wooden backdoor. Later, they drilled a hole to enter the strong room were cash was kept in a heavily secured chest and gold ornaments in the lockers. The professional manner in which the entire operation conducted had left the sleuths baffled. The burglars had full knowledge the location of the CCTV cameras, which were smashed into pieces. The power connection was switched off before using cutters to prise open the chest and lockers.