http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Visakhapatnam/Police-initiatives-pay-dividends/article13980593.ece

Property offences and theft cases in the city have gone down by over 20 per cent over the previous year. In 2015, the total number of property offences reported was 1,324 when compared to 1,668 in 2014.The reason for the drop was due to effective implementation of the jail monitoring system, tracking of habitual offenders and crime mapping of the city, top police officers in the Police Commissionerate said.To begin with, the Commissionerate has mapped the entire city based on various crime modus, time of crime and earmarked the hotspots.Areas such as MVP Colony, Dwarakanagar, Muralinagar and residential areas under Fourth Town Police station such as Seethammadhara and HB Colony are prone to snatching and house breaking.“Almost 60 per cent of the snatchings and house breakings take place in these areas and to curb the crimes, we have stepped up our patrolling system,” said Commissioner of Police Amit Garg.The Commissionerate has increased the frequency of beat patrolling, be it by the Blue Colts or the Rakshak in these areas. “We have increased the patrolling system based on the profile of the area. In some areas, the offences are committed more during day time and in some areas they are committed in the night. We have not only alerted all the resident welfare associations, but also increased the patrol. Each of the patrolling vehicles is fitted with GPS and is monitored by the Central Command Station. The reaction time has been reduced drastically and we are now moving to the site of offence in a few minutes,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (crime) T. Ravi Kumar Murthy.Dacoity casesIn 2014, there were five cases of dacoity and in 2015 there was none. Similarly, the house breaking by night in 2014 was 338 and in 2015 it was 270. While house breaking by day was 58 in 2014 it was 48 in 2015, two wheeler thefts came down from 357 in 2014 to 337 in 2015 and ordinary theft has climbed down from 700 in 2014 to 503 in 2015.The jail monitoring system and tracking of habitual offenders also appear to have paid dividends to the crime wing of the Commissionerate.“All undertrial prisoners, who are released on bail or convicts who come out after serving a sentence, are now being monitored on a regular basis,” said Mr. Amit Garg.“Each of them has to report to their nearest police station periodically, and this has put a check on their activity. In the last year, about 500 such offenders were put under this programme,” said DCP Ravi Kumar Murthy.Similarly, the Commissionerate has gone through the exercise of preparing an extensive database for habitual offenders and rowdy sheeters in each area, and the local police have been told to keep a tab on them.“The sheet elements and the habitual offenders are told to report to the police station on a weekly basis. If one fails to report, then the local police are told to enquire and if required apprehend them. This also has put a check on the habitual offenders and we intend to take the programme to a higher level this year,” said Mr. Ravi Kumar Murhty.All undertrial prisoners are now being monitored on a regular basisAmit GargCity Commissioner of Police