http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Police-offer-assistance-to-seize-Saritha%E2%80%99s-letter/article14013888.ece

The Kerala police on Thursday offered its assistance to seize the controversial letter admittedly written by Saritha S. Nair, key accused in the solar scam, for verification of the solar scam inquiry commission.Deposing before G. Sivarajan Commission, State Police Chief T.P. Sen Kumar stated that all possible steps as stipulated by the law could be initiated, if the Commission required help in this regard. The submission was in response to a query by the Commission on whether the Director General of Police would issue directions to seize the letter, which could be required under Section 126 of the Indian Evidence Act and Section 52 of the Commissions of Inquiry Act To a query regarding the status of a complaint filed by Saritha against a top police officer, the DGP said the Additional Director General of Police, Crime Branch, had conducted an investigation into it based on a complaint received by the then DGP and the allegations were proved to be baseless. A report filed by the investigating officer also said that the complainant, after lodging the complaint, had never cooperated with the investigation at any stage.The police chief also submitted an investigation report in a sealed cover on his probe against Inspector General of police T.J. Jose on the leakage of call details of Saritha S. Nair and alleged destruction of a compact disc containing the details. The official also spoke of a security alert system to deny the entry of persons with criminal antecedents into the Chief Minister’s office and said the State government was yet to take a decision on implementing it.During the day-long hearing, the Commission criticised the police for not raiding the residence of Saritha at Edappazhanji despite taking her into custody from a location close to the house. It also pointed out inconsistencies in the statements given by the police officers while appearing before the commission.Earlier, an interim report filed by the police chief, then with the Intelligence wing, stated that somebody from the Chief Minister’s official residence had misused the land phones for contacting Saritha.