http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Police-crack-the-whip-but-cockfight-organisers-have-their-way-in-Prakasam/article13995405.ece

Despite the ban imposed by the judiciary and with animal rights activists crying foul on cockfights during Sankranti festivities, the organisers of this illegal activity stake claim that they can’t give it a go-by as the rural sports is deep-rooted in the tradition and Andhra culture.Escaping through the vigilant eyes of police, lakhs of rupees change hands across Prakasam district during the harvest festival every year. Hoodwinking the minder of the law and order, the organisers all of a sudden emerge on the village square or fields on the outskirt of villages to quickly organise cockfights and disappear from the spot before the police arrive at the scene of offence, sources said.Ongole Taluka police Circle Inspector S.Antonyraj said that in Mukthinutalapadu, three gamblers were held recently. Four roosters were also seized along with Rs. 11,400 in cash.Though the amount involved in betting is not as high as in the Godavari districts, punters indulge in the traditional sport for the thrill associated with it. Betting and liquor follow the suit. Stepping up raids, the Prakasam police have arrested 58 punters across the district ahead of the festival so far and seized Rs. 66,500 in cash and 26 roosters. As many as 217 persons with track-record of organising cockfights in the past have been bound over, Special Branch DSP Rayapati Srinivas told The Hindu .“The police across the district are on their toes to prevent cockfights at any cost,” he asserted. Revellers were warned through public address system across the district, including remote villages, to refrain from organising cockfights.Meanwhile, a group of cockfight organisers in Chintayigaripalem said: “Cockfight is a vital part of Andhra culture and it must be allowed. The government must take a cue from the Jallikattu which has already been permitted by the Supreme court.”Cockfight is a part of Andhra culture, and it must be allowed. The govt. must take a cue from Jallikattu, which has been permitted by the Supreme Court- Cockfight organisers,Chintayigaripalem