http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Mangalore/Police-Commissioner-to-make-the-best-use-of-social-media/article13979626.ece

M. Chandra Sekhar, who took charge as Commissioner of Mangaluru Police Commissionerate here on Sunday, wants to make the best use of social media to reach out to people. He has replaced S. Murugan, who has been transferred but yet to get any posting.Mr. Chandra Sekhar, a 1998 batch IPS officer hailing from Andhra Pradesh, had earlier served as Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime) in Bengaluru. He has been promoted to the rank of Inspector-General of Police and posted to Mangaluru.Mr. Chandra Sekhar, a B.Tech graduate from Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur, intends to make better use of social media and reach out to people. “We will reach out to people through the social media. I will certainly see how the use of social media can be institutionalised,” he told reporters after taking charge. Mr. Chandra Sekhar said that there will be an increase in the use of technology in policing.Mr. Chandra Sekhar said that social media has been used for good and bad purpose. Whenever there are instances of its misuse for spreading ill-will, hatred and create communal tension, the police will take necessary legal action.Mr. Chandra Sekhar said that he requires time to analyse the situation in the city and take necessary action. His priority will be maintaining law and order and do people-friendly policing.After completing his B.Tech, Mr. Chandra Sekhar worked in Infosys Technologies between 1995 and 1996. He started with the Himachal Pradesh cadre of IPS from 1998, wherein Mr. Chandra Sekhar served in Shimla, Bilaspur and Mandi districts. He was also Aide-de-Camp for the Himachal Pradesh Governor.He came on deputation to Karnataka in 2009 wherein he served in various positions in the Intelligence Wing, Bengaluru Police Commissionerate and in the Fire and Emergency Services.It was in April 2013 that Mr. Chandra Sekhar was transferred from the Himachal Pradesh cadre to the Karnataka cadre of IPS.M. Chandra Sekhar is a 1998 batch IPS officer hailing from Andhra PradeshHe is an alumnus of Indian Institute of Technology, KharagpurHe initally served in Shimla, Bilaspur and Mandi districtsHe came on deputation to Karnataka in 2009He earlier served as Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime) in Bengaluru