http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Vijayawada/Police-to-act-tough-on-cockfights/article13992036.ece

The State police will act tough against those organising cockfights, particularly in Krishna, Guntur, West and East Godavari districts during the Sankranti festival.On the directions of the Supreme Court and the High Court, police are taking all steps to prevent cockfights, which are a tradition in Krishna and Godavari districts.Director-General of Police J.V. Ramudu has issued orders to all Superintendents of Police, directing them to keep a vigil on areas where cockfights are organised. He also said stern action would be taken against the organisers as well as bettors.“Cases will be booked against those accused under the AP Gaming Act, 1974, Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1986 and other relevant Sections. We request villagers to celebrate the harvest festival with joy and fervour and not to conduct banned games such as gambling, ‘gunduaata’ and ‘kodi pandalu [cockfights],” Mr. Ramudu said.Meanwhile, special teams have been formed to strictly implement the court orders. “If the local police fail to control cockfights, action will be taken against Deputy Superintendents of Police (DSPs), Circle Inspectors and Sub-Inspectors concerned,” the DGP warned.Police are keeping a strict vigil on those who tame and train fowls in Konaseema, Bhimavaram, Nuzvid and other areas and hunt for habitual offenders. They are also booking bind over cases against cockfight organisers.“More than 500 cockfight organisers were bound over in Krishna district in various police stations. Instructions have been issued to DSPs and Station House Officers to keep a tab on those who had been arrested earlier on similar charges and intensify patrolling in villages to stop cockfights,” Krishna District Superintendent of Police G. Vijay Kumar said.“We are taking all steps in accordance with court orders. We request the public not to support cockfights,” said a police officer from West Godavari district.If the local police fail to control cockfights, action will be taken against DSPs, Circle Inspectors and SIs concerned- J.V. Ramudu,DGP