http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/Pollution-this-winter-was-worse-than-2014/article13976138.ece

The Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) has released the result of its analysis of air quality data from the continuous monitoring by the Delhi Pollution Control Committee to show that pollution levels this winter have been worse than last year. “This justifies emergency action like the odd and even system, which Delhi should pilot successfully to reduce toxic exposure during smog. Vehicles emit some of the worst toxins and toxic gases within our breathing zone,” said a release. According to the CSE’s analysis of winter pollution, both November and December showed a higher number of days in the ‘severe’ category — which is the worst as per the National Air Quality Index. It added that 73 per cent of days in November 2015 were in the ‘severe’ category, as against 53 per cent in November 2014. December 2015, meanwhile, had 67 per cent days in the ‘severe’ category as against 65 per cent in December 2014. Also, December 2014 had at least three per cent of days in the ‘good’ and ‘satisfactory’ categories, while December 2015 had none. If smog episodes are defined as three consecutive days in the worst category of the Air Quality Index, then the winter of 2015 has already witnessed 11 such episodes. Further, such levels have lasted for 10 consecutive days.This high level of pollution is a compelling reason for Delhi to turn to emergency measures like the odd and even system, the closure of the Badarpur power plant, among others.In its analysis, the CSE said that if half the cars go off the roads, the total toxic load of particulate matter and nitrogen oxides can also be halved. Toxins, including benzene, PAH and other cancer-causing substances can also be cut this way.Also, the carpool strategy is expected to reduce per capita emissions by four times from one car alone, while a Metro ride causes zero emissions (this does not account for emissions from electricity generation).