http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Police-officers%E2%80%99-residences-come-under-bomb-attack/article14002723.ece

The official residential quarters of two police officers at Payyannur here came under bomb attack in the early hours of Saturday, which senior police officers here suspect is apparently in retaliation for the arrest of a Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) worker under the Kerala Anti-social Activities (Prevention) Act (KAPA).Two powerful steel bombs packed with gunpowder and nails were hurled at the official residences of Payyannur circle inspector P.K. Mani and sub inspector K.G. Vipin Kumar, residing on the ground floor and top floor respectively of a residential building in the police quarters at Payyannur at around 2 a.m. The lower part of the front door of the CI’s residence was damaged in the bomb attack. The bomb thrown on the SI’s residence hit a wall, the police said. No one was injured.When contacted, Mr. Mani said he was in bed and woke up when he heard a loud explosion. He was alone in the house, he said.The SI, whose residence also came under attack, was staying there with his wife and children, he said adding that no one was injured because the crude bomb hit the wall.Mr. Mani said that the shrapnel collected from the scene showed that the bombs were packed with nails intended to cause even fatal injuries.Though the attacks were carried out by unidentified people, the police said that it was apparently in retaliation for the arrest of DYFI functionary V.K. Nishad under KAPA a few days ago. Posters intimidating the police officers appeared near the police quarters following the arrest.Four months ago, a wreath was laid outside the residence of the CI following a police raid on the residence of a DYFI worker. The police registered a case and investigation is on by a special team of police officers.Inspector General of Police (Kannur Range) Dinendra Kashyap and District Police Chief P.N. Unnirajan visited the police quarters that came under bomb attack.Mr. Kashyap told The Hindu that the police would soon take into custody those behind the bomb attack. He said the police officers were instructed to use their fire arms in self-defence. The attack on the residence of the police officers could not be taken lightly, he said.When contacted, Mr. Unnirajan said the attack was apparently to avenge the arrest of the DYFI worker under KAPA. Recent incidents showed signs of criminalisation growing at Payyannur in the name of political activism.