http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Police-charged-with-insulting-folk-artistes/article13993047.ece

Pichalli Srinivas, chairman of the Karnataka Janapada Academy, has charged senior police officials with deliberately insulting artists and disrupting a procession taken out as part of a function to distribute awards to artists.Mr. Srinivas had an argument with officials attached to the city police stations outside the venue of the award distribution function at Kannada Bhavan in Kalaburagi on Sunday.He alleged that the police officials, including a woman police officer in the rank of Deputy Superintendent, tried to manhandle him in front of Additional Superintendent of Police Jayaprakash.“I am shocked by the behaviour of the police officials…that too in front of another senior police official…I am going to take it up with Home Minister G. Parameshwara and the Leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha M. Mallikarjun Kharge…this is an insult to the academy and the artists who had converged here to showcase their talent.” Thirty groups of folk artists from different parts of the State converged near Jagat Circle and came in a procession dancing to the tunes of traditional music instruments. Traffic police constables were absent on the road on which the procession was taken out and the traffic was not regulated to allow the procession to proceed smoothly.The moving vehicles disturbed the dancers. At several points, the procession was stopped to allow the traffic to proceed.While the police officials claimed that the academy had not sought permission to organise the procession, the Kannada and Culture Department officials countered it saying that they had already submitted letters seeking permission.Mr. Srinivas said, “If permission was not given for the procession, how did Mr. Jayaprakash inaugurate it? This is a wanton act to disrupt the function and cause deliberate insult to the artists who does not have a voice. This is not a political rally or a protest march. This is a State government-sponsored procession and it is the duty of the police to give protection and ensure that there was no disruption.”When contacted, Superintendent of Police Amit Singh told The Hindu that he would look into the issue.Karnataka Janapada Academy chairman to take up theissue withHome Minister