http://www.thehindu.com/features/kids/Pomp-and-show/article14011990.ece

January 26 is Republic Day. On this day, in 1950, the Constitution of India came into force, replacing the Government of India Act (1935) as the document that governs India.Every year, Republic Day is celebrated with great pomp and show. The main celebrations are, however, those held in New Delhi, at the Rajpath with the President of India present. Ceremonious parades are taken out from Raisina Hill, near the Rashtrapati Bhavan, along the Rajpath, past India Gate. However, before 1955, the parades were held in various places like Irwin Stadium, Red Fort and Ramlila Grounds.Before the parade begins, the Prime Minister lays a floral wreath at the Amar Jawan Jyoti at the India Gate. This is a memorial to soldiers who have given up their lives for the country. It is a solemn reminder of the sacrifice of these soldiers. From here, the Prime Minister goes on to the main dais at Rajpath to join the other dignitaries. The President then arrives with the chief guest.Order of eventsThe president unfurls the National Flag, as the National Anthem is played, and a 21-gun salute is given as the President’s Body Guard (PBG) renders the National Salute. Next, important awards like the Ashok Chakra and Kirti Chakra are given away by the President before the regiments of Armed Forces start their march past. The President comes forward to award the medals of bravery to the people from the armed forces for their exceptional courage in the field and also civilians, who have distinguished themselves by their different acts of valour in different situations. Children who receive the National Bravery Award ride past the spectators on colourfully decorated elephants or vehicles.The President of India, who is the Commander-in-Chief of the Indian Armed Forces, takes the salute while the regiments of the Army, Navy and Air Force march past. Twelve contingents of various para-military forces of India and other civil forces also take part in this parade. One of the unique sights of the parade is the camel mounted Border Security Force contingent, which is the only camel mounted military force in the world. However, this year, for the first time in history this contingent will not be participating. There are more changes this year with the non-inclusion of paramilitary forces. But, some new features have been added, like the dogs squad contingent of the army and a team of French soldiers.The parade traditionally ends with daredevil riding by motorcycle units of the Armed Forces and a flypast by the Indian Air Force jets and helicopters carrying the National Flag and the flags of the three services.In 1950, it was decided that the chief guest for the Republic Day parade would be the head of state or government of another country. The first guest was President Sukarno of Indonesia.This year, the chief guest is the French President Francois Hollande. His visit to New Delhi for the mega pageant of January 26 will be symbolic with the aim to send a message of worldwide solidarity among the democratic countries against terrorism.In conclusionBeating Retreat ceremony is held after the official end of the Republic Day festivities — on the evening of January 29. It is a spectacular sight, performed by the bands of the Indian Army, Indian Navy and Indian Air Force. It is held in Raisina Hill and an adjacent square, Vijay Chowk.The chief guest for this function is the President of India. He is escorted by the PBG. When the President arrives, the unit gives the National Salute, and then the National Anthem is played by the Army. Military Bands, Pipe and Drum Bands, Buglers and Trumpeters from various Army Regiments besides bands from the Navy and Air Force take part and play popular tunes. The hymn “Abide With Me”, is always played because it was Mahatma Gandhi’s favourite hymn. The song “Saare Jahan Se Achcha” is played at the end.