http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/tamil-nadu/Poorly-lit-subways-are-a-risk-during-the-day-too/article14019878.ece

Daytime driving at poorly-lit vehicular subways can be tricky too as it is not easy for motorists to adjust to the sudden change in lighting. On entering a subway from an arterial road during the day – such as the Gengu Reddy subway – drivers encounter a dark stretch.“The lights should be switched on even during the day. It is very difficult to drive on the subway while entering it from the main road,” says J. Ansari, an Ola autorickshaw driver.Drivers slow down all of a sudden as some of them are not able to get a clear view of the road while entering such subways with poor illumination. A traffic police officer says that it is easier for drivers to adjust to a sudden change of lighting while entering a bright area from a dark spot, but, when it is the other way round, it is not so easy. This, the officer explains, can lead to problems for other motorists too.Nearly all vehicular subways have very bad surface and this adds to the problems of drivers, he says.Even pedestrian subways, located near some of the city railway stations, lack adequate lighting, say commuters. There is a need for cost-effective lamps in such subways that function throughout the day to ensure uniform lighting and prevent mishaps, the officer suggests.Keeping stations cleanFor workers engaged in cleaning work at railway stations on the Mass Rapid Transit System (MRTS), the biggest challenge is not removing garbage thrown by commuters. It is cleaning the platforms of bird droppings and excreta left behind by community dogs.R. Manohar, a commuter at Perungudi, said the droppings of pigeons and crows have permanently stained the flooring of the platform at this MRTS station. He said bird droppings were found on the elevated platform and cow dung on the ground floor of the railway station. He wants the Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel and the railway staff to keep the railway station free of cattle and community dogs.Similarly, staff at Velachery, Chintadripet and Chepauk railway stations finds it difficult to remove the permanent stains caused by bird droppings. The pigeon droppings have become a source of irritation for them.(Reporting by K. Manikandan and R. Srikanth)