http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Practising-what-you-preach/article13990396.ece

Diabetes and obesity run in my family. My father was diagnosed with diabetes when he was 45 years old. As for me, being a doctor with a hectic lifestyle sans fitness, it was only a matter of time before I became diabetic too. But what was I doing about it? I was constantly advising my patients about health, wellness and exercise, but I allocated no time for my own health.The turning point was when my wife Radha registered for The Wipro Chennai Marathon 10k in 2012 and started training for it. I found myself chauffeuring her around for early morning training sessions but not setting out to run myself. Seeing my wife and several others sweating it out was the trigger.Even though I had an annual membership at a local gym, I couldn’t make use of it, as my evening practice was a hindrance. Early morning runs were the only workable solution left for me. Since there weren’t any neighbourhood running groups, I used a smartphone app called Couch to 5k and started walking and jogging as per the run plan. I found it extremely difficult to run even 50 metres initially; then, over a period of 12 weeks, I was able to run 5 km without much huffing and puffing.I registered for my first running event in May 2013 for the TCS 10k in Bangalore. I started my training more seriously after joining weekend running with Dream Runners at Besant Nagar. Soon, Chennai Runners started a neighbourhood running chapter in KK Nagar-Ashok Nagar in 2013.The TCS 10K brought a big change in me; I finished my first run and was euphoric for the next few days, and thanks to the endorphins, I was experiencing the “runner’s high”. Since then, there hasn’t been any looking back, and I have tried my best not to miss any training runs. The group running has helped me become confident to do better than before.Running has helped me visit places that I never dreamt of, including Leh-Ladakh and Cherrapunjee. Since I was with my family, it meant great bonding too. It also instilled some discipline in me: with no more added sugar in my diet, my weight dropped from 90 kg to 74 kg; no late-night movies or parties, since we had to get up early on Saturday and Sunday for our runs.Now I can say boldly that I practise what I preach…. Thanks to running!Dr. Kumar Janardanan is a consultant diabetologist and professor of medicine at SRM Medical College Hospital. He runs with Chennai Runners Pillar Pacers chapter and has completed 10 full and 17 half marathons.About Chennai RunnersChennai Runners is a passionate group of runners with 18 chapters across the city. They periodically organise various running events across the city, including the marquee marathon event in December. More about Chennai Runners at www.facebook.com/groups/chennairunners.