http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Mangalore/Presence-of-mind-saves-the-day/article14012952.ece

The presence of mind of a van driver not only saved him but also others driving on the National Highway 66 between Nanthoor Circle and Pumpwell Junction in the city from what could have been a major accident on Thursday.Amid heavy traffic on the highway, the brakes of the van that was carrying scaffolding material failed at Nanthoor Circle. But the driver, a senior citizen, who did not lose his cool, managed to stop the vehicle at Pumpwell Junction by steering the four-wheeler into a heap of soil dumped by the side of the highway. It was a miraculous escape for the driver and other road users.The soil dumped by Mangaluru City Corporation at Pumpwell Junction for road widening indeed came as a saviour.It was a harrowing experience for Tammanna, the van driver aged about 70, driving from Nanthoor Circle towards Pumpwell Junction as he, after passing the Nanthoor Circle, realised that the brakes of his van had failed. As the entire highway slopes towards Pumpwell Junction for over a kilometre, and with the median on the one side and a gorge on the other, he had no option but to stop the vehicle somehow, without causing any major damage. In his effort to bring the vehicle under control, Tammanna ran the van into the median twice.The vehicle was jolted but did not stop. He did not repeat it for the third time as the vehicle could have jumped over the median and rammed other vehicles on the opposite lane.At the same time, some two-wheeler riders, who realised that the brakes of the van had failed, tried to help. They passed by the tempo and kept stones on the highway in a bid to stop the rushing vehicle.Though Tammanna drove over the stones, he could not bring it to a halt. Many suggested that he jump out of the vehicle but he did not agree to it.The real challenge was in front of Karnataka Bank headquarters where the highway is bereft of a median, till Mahaveera Circle (Pumpwell Junction). The driver, however, steered the vehicle onto the service road, turned left at the circle and drove it into the heap of soil, bringing to an end an unforgettable episode in his driving career. Later, many congratulated Tammanna for his courage in bringing the van to safety.