http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Press-all-caps/article14010184.ece

With the chilly wintry breeze here, it is time that those with a flair for fashion to scout for their dad’s wardrobe to wear his well preserved felt hat. Or else instruct the local tailor to jazz up their woollen cap by adding an extra layering. In either case, the accessory acts as a protector from the freezing weather and also make heads turn.Now some facts. Felt hats were in vogue in big cities like New Delhi, Calcutta and towns like Dehra Dun – inhabited by British school masters, – in 1950s. During the Raj days, hats were patronised by the British and affluent Indians who took the ruling class to be progressive in terms of their wardrobe. Those days quite a few haberdasheries selling felt hats along with matching suits existed.Today designers have interesting takes on hats and woollen caps, a practical wear for aam aadmi. Ordinary but efficacious, woollen caps are comfortable, affordable and give ample protection from the harsh weather as winter slowly makes it way back into the city.According to Aneeth Arora, old classic hats with embroidery or decorated with artificial flowers make a style statement. “Winter hats worn in polo matches are elaborate and make people noticeable. They are both handmade as well as machine made.”In Pero Fall Winter 2015, she explored stories of real people. “The lives they breathe when they put on their uniforms. We up-cycled GiGi felt caps with our signature hand stitching and enamel buttons, to compliment the military inspired clothing of jackets, khakis, trench coats.”On woollen caps, she says, “I suggest embroidered, hand knitted caps. They are simple in style. One can ask the local darzi to add another layer by putting trims, flowers and buttons. This would make the wearer safe from the cold as well as be in fashion.”To make woollen caps look cool, Shalini James, whose collections are a blend of textiles, crafts and embroideries, says, “If woollen caps are hand-knitted then they easily be sequined, have weaves and give nice texture. Caps in beige, nude can give the person a style quotient. These would look good in parties also.”Head gears like bowler hats, bucket hats, detective hats have not gone out of fashion as they are worn in boardroom meetings and cocktail dos.Describing hats as a derby trend, designer Komal Sood says they are ideal during the day time like at horse races or polo matches.“Woollen caps can be accentuated by colour, print depending on the time of the day.They can be made to look attractive by weaving floral patterns.”Campus capIn Delhi University, where an informal environment prevails, Beanie caps are the in-thing as more and more varsity students can be seen wearing classic grey slouchy Beanie or black noise wrinkled Beanie.“Students wear them as they go well with big rimmed glasses and street fashion like loose ripped jeans, leather jackets,” says Avantika Mishra, student at Lady Sri Ram College.Unisex woollen skull caps, the Himachali topi, military print skull caps are some of the varieties which youngsters wear. Akansha, pursuing Masters in English literature from Ramjas College, says, “Woollen caps are trendy in North Campus due to their comfort factor and adequately covering up the head."Caps with animal motifs are also in style, she informs.