http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/Principal-allegedly-beaten-in-school-in-Bengaluru/article14011833.ece

Instead of receiving flowers as a parting gift, an outgoing principal of a well-known private school in Sarjapur claimed to have been beaten by the chairman’s wife in front of her students, ostensibly for handing in her resignation when the school is facing several management issues. The alleged incident, which was witnessed by students and colleagues, took place on Wednesday mid-morning. The school is located on a 30-acre campus on Sarjapur Road.Education officials said they will be investigating the chain of events. Ramesh, Block Education Officer (South Four), said, “It is confirmed that there was a scene between the principal’s family and the chairman. The police were called. But we do not have confirmation that she was attacked physically.”The principal’s family is believed to have arrived on the scene after the alleged incident. “I was informed that the principal had resigned on January 5. The owners had planned to meet her today to give a parting gift when the situation turned ugly,” he added.Describing the chain of events, principal Dr. Azra Begum said, “I met the chairman in the morning. After I left the office and was walking in the corridor, the chairman’s wife suddenly accosted me. She pulled my hair and repeatedly banged my head on a nearby wall before she was pulled away. Although I have interacted with her before, this is the first time she displayed such violent behaviour.”The chairman could not be reached by The Hindu , as his phone was switched off. Other members of the school management were also not available to comment. Even the BEO said that he could not reach the school’s management for their version.Ms. Begum said, “I’m still in shock. My family and parents of some students are advising me to file a police complaint.”Parents were quick to rally around the principal. “Many of us are still unable to comprehend that something like this could happen. Whether or not our daughter will continue in this school will be a family decision,” said one parent.“If the principal can be attacked, then I cannot really entrust the safety of my son and daughter to the people running the school. I will immediately see if I can make alternate arrangements for them,” said a man, who had been called from work by his sobbing daughter.Principal claimed she was beatenby the chairman’s wife for putting in her papers