http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Producing-brilliant-paintings-despite-all-odds/article14021976.ece

Suffering from Down’s Syndrome and with an average IQ of 8 or 9, 23-year-old Anusha S. Kanta has come out with a flying colours in visual arts with her intricate and creative paintings.Her brilliant landscapes with imaginative colour combinations and intricate drawings in contemporary and modern styles are a treat to watch. Anusha Kanta’s first individual painting show has opened here at the Matoshree Neelgangamma G. Andani Art Gallery.A final year student in the MMK College of Visual Art, Anusha Kanta is making waves in the world of arts with her choice of colours and style of paintings. Whether it is drawing with minute designs or landscapes in acrylic, this special girl leaves a distinctive mark and individuality in her work. Two of her paintings have won the first two prizes in a competition for final year students of Bachelors in Visual Art.The former Chairman of the Karnataka Lalitkala Academy and eminent painter V.G. Andani under whose watchful eyes Anusha Kanta blossomed into an accomplished painter, said,“She is a special girl… her paintings are distinctively different, her choice of colours, the creativity and the clean colour combination, are amazing for a girl suffering from this kind of physical disorder.” Anusha Kanta’s parents Gurupadappa Kanta and Jayashree Kanta have been the force behind her success.Ms. Jayashree Kanta said that her daughter joined a foundation course in visual arts in MMK College of Visual Art after completing her SSLC in 2009.That was the turning point in the life of Anusha Kanta, her mother said. Anusha Kanta, who was till then in continuous medication for her illness, gave up the support of medicines to lead a normal life after joining MMK College of Visual Art.According to medical professionals, there is no cure for Down’s Syndrome and education and proper care of patients would help improve the quality of life of those suffering from Down’s Syndrome.Prof. Andani said that Anusha Kanta was studious and always remained independent without coming under the influence of her student colleagues, as she believed in herself. Kavita, a close friend of Anusha Kanta, said, “Anusha is a good human being and a quick learner. She is tough person who cannot be influenced easily… she was always independent and remains assured of her abilities.” Anusha Kanata, in her incoherent language, said that she wants to study further and exhibit her painting in other cities.