http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Project-to-make-Kannur-barrier-free-gathers-pace/article13980115.ece

The project to make Kannur the first barrier-free district in the State is set to be completed by February as work for setting up disabled-friendly access has already started in 1,250 offices.The project envisages facilities in government offices for the convenience and safety of people with disabilities. The facilities will be provided in 2,810 government offices in the district as per the plan. Vertical and horizontal access including ramps with hand rails, lifts and signage are the facilities planned. The total estimated cost of the project is Rs.18.50 crore. The State Budget has allocated Rs.15 crore for the project. As many as 120 government institutions have already been made barrier-free.“By the end of January, works for ensuring barrier-free environment will be completed in 1,250 government institutions,” District Collector P. Bala Kiran said. The facilities are being set up in schools, panchayat offices and agricultural offices, among others, he added. The Collector also informed that the project will cover all the 2,810 government institutions by February end.Works are being carried out by the Local Self Government Department and the Nirmithi Kendra.Under the project, 10 major offices in the district, including the collectorate, district panchayat office, district police chief office, taluk office, mini civil stations and the district hospital, would have elaborate barrier-free facilities. The project also envisages construction of natural pathways to assist blind persons such as blister tactile and vertical tactile and horizontal tactile paving, accessible sanitary facilities, among others.The project is to provide barrier-free environment for physically-challenged people working in the government institutions and the disabled people visiting the offices. An estimated 10 per cent of over 50,000 employees working in the government institutions in the district belong to the physically-challenged category.Work likely to be completed by FebruaryProject estimated to cost Rs. 18.5 crore