http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Project-for-tribal-varsity-hanging-fire/article13985681.ece

While governments have been pumping a huge amount every year for the development of tribesmen, a project for setting up a university in Wayanad exclusively for tribal students in the State remains on paper, thanks to alleged laxity of the Scheduled Tribe Development Department.The proposed multicrore project was announced in 2012 by Chief Minister Oommen Chandy. He said that the project would help resolve the issues such increasing rate of dropout among tribal children and malnutrition besides ensure them quality education. The project, modelled on the lines of the Kalinga Institute of Social Sciences (KISS), Odisha, was aimed at providing quality education, with emphasis on vocational education, to the tribal children from the primary level to the postgraduate and research level. It also aimed at conserving tribal culture and traditional knowledge.Former Wayanad sub collector S. Harikishore had been appointed as the nodal officer of the project and a team led by Minister for Welfare of the Scheduled Tribes P.K. Jayalakshmi had visited the KISS in August 2012 for the purpose. It was planned to set up the institution on 100 acres of barren land of the Priyadarshini Tea Estate at Makkimala, near Mananthavady, at an initial cost of about Rs.30 crore. The governing body of the estate had resolved to provide the land free of cost.It was also planned to set up a residential school, like the Navodaya school, on a rented building in the initial phase to cater to 350 children, from class 1 to 7 a year, from 2013 academic year and develop the institution to a university of international standards in three years. A master plan for the project was also prepared and submitted to the government.B.S. Premanand, Deputy Director, Scheduled Tribe Development Department, told The Hindu that earlier the government had planned to implement the project with the active involvement of the KISS. But, according to the norms of the KISS, the land identified was not sufficient for such an institution. Lack of airport accessibility to the land also had come as a roadblock to the project. However, the department was drafting a new proposal and it was in its final stages, he added.Project aimed at giving quality education to tribal childrenModelled on Kalinga Institute of Social Sciences, Odisha