http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Protect-water-meters-from-theft/article14019429.ece

Sir, — On the pretext of providing 24 x 7 water supply, houses in some parts of Raichur have been connected to a waterline with meters. The agency, entrusted with the work, has not covered the meters with cement concrete (as promised) and the meters are exposed to nature. There are also reports of theft of such uncovered meters which costs around Rs. 14,000 each. As the State reels under drought, chances of getting water seem to be bleak. The authorities should initiate action to safeguard at least the meters from theft and damage till water is released.Hemachandra Kouloorkar,RaichurStop detour to SaiPrashanti NilayamSir, — Long-distance trains on the Kalaburagi-Bengaluru route take a detour to Sai Prashanti Nilayam and rejoin the main line increasing the travel time by 30 minutes. With the number of trains increasing, the Udyan Express is invariably getting late. Reaching Bengaluru late in the morning puts people in a fix as they have to start their working day from the afternoon. For passengers wanting to reach Sai Prashanti Nilayam, shuttle arrangements from Dharmavaram would serve the purpose. Therefore, the Railways should stop the detour to Sai Prashanti Nilayam for long-distance trains.Sharad M. Tanga,KalaburagiNeed for more trainsSir, — The number of commuters travelling between Kalaburagi and Bengaluru has been rising and the three express trains are inadequate to meet the demand. There is a need for new trains, Kalaburagi-Bangaluru/Mysore Garib Rath, Kalaburagi-Kolhapur-Belagavi, Kalaburagi-Bengaluru Janshatabdi for day journey with chair cars, and finally, a night passenger train between Gadag-Koppal-Bellary-Raichur-Kalaburagi.Since, a new pit line has been pressed into service here, the Railways can operate the trains from here. We expect Railway Minister Suresh Prabhu to announce these trains in the ensuing Budget.Mudgal Venkatesh,KalaburagiReaders can emailto letters.mangalore@thehindu.co.in