http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Thiruvananthapuram/Protesters-in-no-mood-to-give-in/article13983766.ece

In the fag end of August last year, when a few families started setting up makeshift tents on 2 acres of land owned by the city Corporation at Mannammoola, protesting against the delay in executing a housing project here for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, it was seen as a feeble protest movement which would fizzle out in a few days.But, four months later, the tents have swelled in numbers to almost 500 and the protesters under the leadership of Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and Ambedkar Democratic Party of India are in no mood to give in. A small petty shop at the entry point of the plot and two public toilets inside have come up in recent months.After being ignored for months, the protest was back in the spotlight in mid-December when clashes were reported here. Divisions had cropped up between the protesters here and a new group had emerged claiming leadership. According to the people here, on December 17, the rival group came and attacked the settlement with stones. In the ensuing fights, a few from both sides sustained injuries.According to them, S. Babu, a daily wage worker from Uzhamalakkal, who passed away 10 days later at the Medical College Hospital here, died allegedly because of an injury during the fight. The hospital though has maintained that the death was due to other illnesses too. Meanwhile, some of the protest leaders, including BSP leader V.K. Rajendran, are under custody, over a complaint filed by the rival group. More homeless Dalit families from the suburbs of the city have come here in recent days to set up tents. But the residents have asked them to wait till their protest leaders came back from custody.“We have decided to stay here till the Corporation authorities took a decision regarding the housing project. If they were expecting us to go back after a few days, they must have got the message by now,” says Jagadamma from Vandithadam.Most of those who have come here work as daily wage workers or as domestic helps and used to stay in puramboke land or in rented houses. But many of the families who have put up tents here might not get a house even if the project takes off, as they are from outside the Corporation limits.