http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/Promising-is-one-thing-fulfilling-is-%E2%80%A6/article13994040.ece

It’s quiet common in politics that the parties out of power, particularly the ones which never tasted power, make tall claims of what they will do if they formed governments. In the process, little do they realise the hurdles, hardships and delays that could take place in keeping the word. The ruling TRS was no different as an Opposition party in claiming that it would take no time to overcome problems of energy, completion of projects and extending welfare measures to different sections, to name a few.However, the realisation appeared to have dawned on the party early as was evident in the speech of Minister K.T. Rama Rao during the launch of health cards for journalists the other day. My experience in politics is that giving a word on something and fulfilling it are world apart, practically. We thought of implementing some welfare measures for journalists within a short time of coming to power without realising hardships and hurdles in bringing them onto the track,” he said explaining the delay in launching health cards. The parting shot by the Minister, however, was that it was difficult to implement some schemes even if the government is “sincere”!Modernisation of polytechnics What is the impression one gets about polytechnics in comparison to engineering colleges?. That, they are a shade lower in standard of education. It is precisely to overcome this stigma that the Telangana government has decided to make all polytechnics in the State Wi-Fi enabled.There are 54 polytechnics in the State but the enrolment of bright students in them has been lacking for years. In an attempt to revive the past glory of polytechnics in attracting students with a good academic record, the government has contemplated introduction of Wi-Fi, e-classes and e-libraries in these institutions with the goal to get the recognition of National Board of Accreditation in at least 15 of them.Stuck in the last mile The Centre has released the list of posts in government departments that were divided between Andhra Pradesh and Telangana though nothing of the sort was provided in the bifurcation law. But, the list is stuck in the last mile. The Kamalanathan panel which was vested with the job of bifurcation of posts could not complete the task in Special Protection Force which had 5,000 State-level posts in the erstwhile Andhra Pradesh.This was due to certain objections raised by Telangana government. In this background, the committee is meeting on January 20 to sort out ticklish issues. Hope all goes well for the panel.