http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/Providing-double-protection-against-polio/article13976339.ece

In another few months, by April 25 to be precise, health authorities in Telangana State will be taking a vital step towards further strengthening the polio eradication programme when they induct Inactivated Polio Vaccine (IPV) in the comprehensive immunisation programme. Till now, polio vaccination was entirely driven by oral drops.In addition to oral drops, health authorities are gearing up to administer IPV, which will be in the form of injections. Doctors point out that by and large, IPV is safe with sporadic instances of adverse reactions among children administered with it. However, caregivers also maintain that government doctors, vaccine administrators and parents should be wary of contraindications.Physicians have advised parents to opt for oral polio vaccines if their children have a history of allergic reactions to antibiotics like streptomycin or neomycin. In order to implement the administration of IPV, health authorities in the last few months have been conducting a series of workshops and training sessions for ground-level staff for smooth administration of the polio vaccine.“IPV introduction is being taken up in a phase-wise manner and in November, it was introduced in UP and Bihar. The objective of this programme is to strengthen child’s immunity in addition to providing them double protection against polio. We have reached out to most of the ground staff, including Anganwadi workers, who will administer the IPV,” says Arun Kumar, the surveillance officer for WHO in Telangana.Compared to oral form of polio vaccine, the IPV is also expensive with each dose costing anywhere between Rs. 100 and Rs. 120. According to estimates, the State and Central governments will be incurring an additional expenditure of Rs. 7.50 crore per year to administer the inactivated form of polio vaccine.“Apart from completing the training part, we are almost through with the logistics part. The Government of India has given clear cut instructions to switch to IPV by April 25 and we will be able to meet the deadline in Telangana State,” says Chief Programme Officer, National Health Mission (NHM) in Telangana, G. Srinivasa Rao.The existing oral polio vaccine, which is cheap and can be easily administered, uses live but weakened forms of the poliovirus. However, live vaccine viruses can occasionally revert to virulence and there is always a chance of having a ‘live’ polio virus in the community. With IPV, however, there are no such risks because the virus is already deactivated, doctors here clarified.Senior paediatricians have also stressed on the importance of training workers on handling IPV and maintaining the cold chain, which is necessary, while the drug is being transported.