http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/Protests-continue-to-rock-UoH/article14014706.ece

Protests continued to rock the University of Hyderabad (UoH) here on Friday, five days after 25-year-old research scholar Rohith Vemula committed suicide. Rajya Sabha member T.N. Seema, who came to address the protesting students, said it would not be right for her to continue as a member of the Court of UoH, and that she has written to President Pranab Mukherjee about it.Protests continued through the day, with seven students sitting on a hunger strike from the last three days.At around 4 p.m., B.P. Sanjay, a senior faculty member from the Communication Department, said on behalf of the varsity’s teachers, the demands put forth by the protesting students would be looked into.“We will collect all the documents and discuss how to address your concerns. Other matters you mentioned will definitely be discussed. Our collective intention despite differences is all for functioning of academics,” said Prof. Sanjay. Classes have been suspended in the campus since Monday.Rohith was among the five students who were expelled from the UoH hostel, as punishment for getting into a scuffle with ABVP member Susheel Kumar.According to sources, Vice-Chancellor Appa Rao had visited the deceased’s mother along with Dean of Students’ Welfare Prakash Babu two days ago at her house in Uppal.But she politely refused to meet Prof. Rao, stating that she would do so only on the UoH campus in front of other four students.“I didn’t examine Susheel”Stating clearly that she had not examined ABVP member Susheel Kumar after he was admitted in a private hospital in the early hours of August 4, T. Anupama Rao, Senior Medical Officer, Health Centre, University of Hyderabad (UoH), said that her role was only limited to passing on the medical report provided by the hospital to the administration.Ms. Anupama’s name had come into the spotlight when the Chief Medical Officer (CMO) of the Health Centre questioned as to why the UoH administration had sent her to Archana Hospital at Madinaguda where Susheel was admitted, and later underwent a procedure for appendicitis. “I had not examined Susheel. I only passed on the medical report from the hospital to the (UoH) administration, and told them what the doctor had told me,” she said.