http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/kozhikode/Public-outcry-against-Bevco-outlet/article13980665.ece

: The shutting down of some outlets of the Kerala State Beverages Corporation (Bevco) recently has apparently created problems for people who live near the existing ones. The residents of Captain Vikram Road at Eranhipalam here are the latest to raise their voice against the sudden increase in the number of customers at the Bevco outlet in their vicinity, and their unruly behaviour. That the outlet has been functioning illegally for some months has added to their fury.The owner of the building had sent an evacuation notice to Bevco authorities after the contract expired in April 2010. As there was no response from Bevco, he approached the Munsif Court, which, in August 2014, ordered evacuation of the premises. Bevco moved the District Court against the order, which upheld the Munsif Court order, in October 2015. However, the outlet continues to function in the same building despite the two court orders.“This is a clear challenge and disrespect to court as well as contempt of public opinion,” said T.C. Bijuraj, councillor of the area and president of the Captain Vikram Road Anti-liqour Protest Committee.The committee, along with the local people and Kerala Madyanirodhana Samithi, had appealed to the Chief Minister, Excise Minister, Excise Commissioner, District Collector and the Deputy Excise Commissioner in Kozhikode against the outlet. “After two outlets in the city were shut down recently, the number of customers here has increased. The narrow road is now crowded with these people. Many of them in inebriated state often cause trouble in the neighbourhood. Many a time we find them asleep at the gates,” Mr. Bijuraj said.A march to the outlet and a token strike in front of it did not elicit any response. The committee is now planning to move court on behalf of the residents.The residents plan to hold a dharna at the Bevco office on January 11. A campaign will be held at the taluk level on January 15 and 16.