http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Pulling-the-right-strings/article13982692.ece

Families crowded the auditorium of National Gallery of Modern Art (NGMA). They were eagerly waiting for the curtain to rise on a puppet festival. Anumpama Hoskere, founder of Dhaatu Puppet Theatre said, “Every society has a culture of storytelling and in India the art of storytelling is reinforced through puppetry. Dhaatu aims to revive and promote the ancient and vanishing art form of traditional Indian puppetry through this festival.”The theatre group has held international festivals and performed overseas in Paris, Brussels and Nice. The event featured wooden puppets. The show was a vibrant piece of visual art, which also involved elements of theatre such as lighting and music.The piece that was presented was Mooshika katha, a story of a sage’s quest for a suitor for his daughter, who is not satisfied with even a God as her husband. She finally ends up marrying a rat. Anupama, who also directed the show, explains, “The medium of puppetry is significant in conveying the plot as this particular story has a lot of scope -- visually and musically. The art of storytelling is reinforced through puppetry. The need to communicate is universal and eternal, and that is what the arts aims to do. Puppetry is the perfect combination of beauty and intellect.”She adds, “ Mooshika katha teaches us to accept the cycle in life that for a particular thing, there is always something better and worse. Only when we understand this cycle will we learn to respect other creatures around us in nature.”Talking about the relevance of this story in the current day, she reflects, “Now-a-days, the youth, tend to develop insecurities when told that they’re not good enough for something. The idea that they are ‘not good enough’ simply means that they don’t fit that certain part; this is the message to be taken from the story.”The fest attracted people from all corners of India and the world.Prakriti Hoskere, from the Dhaatu team, adds, “Puppetry is recognised as a full-fledged art form now, rather than something that is just performed at a kids’ party.”Children too were floored by the show. Arundati Parek, 12, says “It was nice and I liked the part when the girl turned into a mouse!”Pratik Bheemankottay, 11, added, “It was so good and they did everything perfectly! I hope I can go to the festival in January.”With expert artists from Bulgaria and Turkey, and months of preparation, this festival entertained children and adults alike.Mala Dhawan, a member of the audience says, “This is my first time watching such a show and it was interesting.”