http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Vijayawada/Pulse-Polio-drive-off-to-an-impressive-start/article14004740.ece

The health officials posted on the Pulse Polio Immunisation (PPI) programme will conduct door-to-door visits in the city in the next two days and administer polio drops to the children who were left uncovered in the immunisation drive undertaken on Sunday.Oral pulse polio drops were administered to 5.26 lakh children under the age of five years in Kurnool district, Collector Ch. Vijayamohan said on Sunday.Launching the first phase of the National Pulse Polio Immunisation drive at the Municipal High School at Budhawarapet, he administered polio drops to children. The administration has set up 2,735 polio booths including 473 in the rural areas and 10,940 staff members were drafted for the drive.Eighty eight mobile teams were administering drops to children in transit at bus stations, railway stations, shandies and village fairs, Mr. Vijayamohan said, adding that medical and health personnel were would undertake a door-to-door campaign till January 21 and administer polio drops to children who were not covered on Sunday.Meanwhile, Kadapa Collector K.V. Ramana said that 3.17 lakh children in the district were administered polio drops on Sunday. He launched the Pulse Polio drive by administering polio drops to children at Mandal Parishad Primary School at Moolavanka . Two hundred and ninety eight supervisors monitored the drive at 3,054 booths and 17,608 medical and health staff, teachers and Asha workers administered oral polio drops, Mr. Ramana said. In Chittoor, DM&HO K. Koteswari on Sunday launched the first phase of the Pulse Polio Immunization (PPI) drive at ZP High School at Gangapalle in Chittoor, and inspected several PPI booths in the district. She said that compared to last year, there was an overwhelming response to the drive this year, thanks to a number of children from neighbouring States and districts, who were still here on Sankranti vacation. “The PPI drive personnel were instructed to focus on migrant children at brick kilns and agriculture farms,” she said. The DM&HO said that the drive had targeted to cover 4.6 lakh children in the district.The 3-day Pulse Polio programme began amid elaborate arrangements in Nellore district with the administration setting up polio booths at schools and in the main thoroughfares.Nearly 3,048 pulse polio booths were opened across the district with nearly 20,921 vials made available for the staff. In-charge Collector A.Md. Imtiyaz administered polio drops to children at Oruganti Rukminamma Memorial Elementary School in Haranathapuram. The first round of immunisation drive to cover about 3.57 lakh children in Prakasam district got under way on Sunday. MP Y.V. Subba Reddy, along with Prakasam Joint Collector Hari Jawaharlal inaugurated the programme by administering polio drops to children at the Urban centre here.5.26 lakh children administrated polio drops in Kurnool; 3.17 lakh kids immunised in Kadapa