http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Vijayawada/Punters-defy-SC-orders-organise-cockfights/article14003082.ece

Even as the Supreme Court and the High Court gave orders prohibiting cockfights during Sankranti festivities in the State, punters went ahead and staged games involving knife-tied cocks in many villages. Efforts of the police went in vain and the show went on.Following a Public Interest Litigation (PIL), the courts banned the cockfights and directed the government to take steps to prevent the fights during the harvest festival. However, the locals conducted the ‘bloody’ game in which thousands of people participated cheering the clashing birds.Massive tents, makeshift hotels, juice stalls, biryani points, liquor shops, non-vegetarian snacks, ice cream parlours were seen on the roadside in many villages adding pep to the cockfights. Several participants arrived in posh cars from different places to witness and participate in the fights.Roosters brought from different States took part in the cockfights and the lush green fields were soaked with blood of the fowls that fell from the deadly blows of the rivals. People such as realtors, political leaders, software professionals, film stars, landlords and traders invested huge stakes and minted money.Tradition“Cockfights, like flying kites, organising bullock-cart races, decorating bulls and arranging ‘bogipallu’ for children, are part of our tradition,” said a villager P. Suryanarayana of Kalidindi village in Krishna district. Cockfights were widely organised at Vijayawada, Kankipadu, Vuyyuru, Gudivada, Agiripalli, Penamaluru, Nunna, Kaikalur, Kalidindi and other places in Krishna district.In West and East Godavari districts, the banned game was conducted in coconut orchards and paddy fields in Bhimavaram, Palakole, Akiveedu, Lankalakoderu, Narsapuram, Achanta, Marteru, Penugonda, Razole, Amalapuram, Jaggannapeta, Kothapeta, Ravulapalem, Senapallilanka, Rajahmundry, Kadiyam and other towns and villages.ArrangementsThe arrangements for the fights were similar to an international cricket match for the organisers arranged cash counting machines and installed LED screens for the convenience of visitors.Cocks imported from Chennai, Bangalore, Karaikal, Kochi, Odisha and also from other countries were seen on the field. Punters from AP, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Telangana and NRIs participated in the sport along with families.Priests fixed ‘muhurtams’ of the fights depending upon the feather colour, eyes, weight, height and date of birth of the rooster. Organisers called the trained fowls as ‘kaki’ ‘dega,’ ‘nemali’, ‘hamsa,’ ‘setuva’ and ‘nalla kaki’ and other names before pitching them against their rivals.Seating arrangement has been made for the VIPs at many places.In several villages, the fights were held day and night for the last three days. There was a heavy demand for the meat of the cocks killed in the fight. Person who won the fight sold meat at Rs. 1,000 to Rs.1,200 per kg.“We are not violating the law. Cockfights are part of our tradition and we are sharing the joy with public,” says a political leader from Krishna district. No Police, Revenue and Excise personnel were seen at cockfights and no patrolling was witnessed.ClashesMeanwhile, the cockfights led to clashes at a few places and about 10 persons suffered injuries at Krishnavaram village in Arigipalli mandal in Krishna district on Saturday.