http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Kochi/Puthiya-Road-turns-a-nightmare-for-motorists/article13979556.ece

Travelling along Puthiya Road from Palarivattom-Vyttila NH bypass to Cochin Special Economic Zone through Palachuvadu has turned into a nightmare for motorists these days.With no enforcement agency to regulate traffic through the region, citizens are struggling to reach their destinations as it takes hours to cross the stretch, especially during peak hours.An increasing number of heavy vehicles plying along the stretch to reach both Kakkanad and NH bypass has made life difficult for daily commuters. Tanker lorries, transit mixer trucks and water tankers now depend on this road to reach Kakkanad while avoiding the busy and congested Palarivattom-Kakkanad stretch through Chembumukku and Padamugal.Ramesh Menon, who uses the road to reach Infopark and Kakkanad on a daily basis, pointed out that severe congestion is experienced at Thaikavu Junction, Vennala Government School Junction and Palachuvadu Junction. “It took me more than an hour the other day to reach office. Earlier, the travelling time was less than half-an-hour,” he said.The nearly five-kilometre stretch owned by the Public Works Department gets narrow at various spots. Residents alleged that the width of the road had shrunk at many places owing to encroachment. They have urged the authorities to regulate the movement of heavy vehicles through the stretch.Illegal parking“They should also remove vehicles parked illegally near key junctions along the stretch to ensure normalcy. The bell-mouths of junctions on the corridor are at right angles, obstructing free movement of vehicles and causing traffic hold-ups,” said Gopinathan Nair, a regular commuter.Sajan Koikkal, Assistant Commissioner of Traffic (Kochi East), said there was a surge in heavy vehicles on the stretch, after the daily restriction between 9 a.m. and 10 a.m. “We have placed a control room vehicle along the stretch till 10.30 a.m. But the situation is bad, especially due to the lack of width at key points along the road,” he said.