http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Put-your-right-foot-in/article14006939.ece

Siblings -- Akanksha and Aarti Chhabra – are creating a buzz with their store Pastels & Pop (www.pastelsandpop.com), a designer label that specialises in handcrafted and hand-embroidered Punjabi jutis.A former software professional, Akanksha says: “My passion for designing and haute couture lured me into this industry. I always nurtured a dream of starting my own enterprise, now it’s come true. What makes it even better is having my sister, Aarti, (currently pursuing her final year BBM) as my business partner. Creativity runs through her blood and finds its way into her hands, which is why she’s amazing at sketching and art. Our mutual interest in clothing and accessories led us to start Pastels & Pop.”About the inspiration to set up shop, Aarti states: “Traditional footwear seems to have been forgotten in today’s world of towering heels and stilettos. We believe that the great Indian juti needs to be given a fresh twist while retaining its ethnic aura.”“Our initial years were spent in the heart of Punjab, and we always adored the jutis our mother bought from the streets of Amritsar. For our sister Neha’s wedding, we designed all our outfits from scratch, including the wedding outfit and the footwear. The positive response we received was what triggered off the genesis of our own labels,” explains Akanksha. “At Pastels & Pop, the designs that we introduce are not accidental. A lot of thought goes into the type of prints and embroideries we choose, so that they meet the taste of the modern woman. We cater to women belonging to a wide age-group, looking for versatile and elegant footwear for any occasion. While some of our juttis provoke elegance, others can get downright funky. That way, there’s a juti for every occasion.”Considering they are fairly new in the business, Aarti admits: “it’s not been a fairy-tale ride. But, all that struggle has been worth it.”Akanksha adds, “Initially, I faced criticism for quitting my job as a software engineer. I see now that we’re on the right track. We still are a long way from where we want to be as a company.”The sisters feel “the most challenging part of starting this brand was finding craftsmen who fit the bill and who could transform our designs into exquisitely crafted jutis.”Interestingly, the young fashion entrepreneurs already have a growing clientele across India and abroad too. “While we have handled individual international orders until now, we plan to go international soon,” Akanksha informs.This column features those who choose to veer off the beaten track.