http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/PWD%E2%80%99s-first-white-topped-road-getting-ready-in-State/article14004501.ece

In a State where a majority of newly surfaced roads last only till the first showers, this road in Kalamassery may prove to be an exception.White-topping of the five-and-a-half-kilometre stretch between HMT Junction and Manalimukku Junction is nearing completion.The Public Works Department (PWD) has undertaken it as a pilot project, which may be gradually replicated across the State if found successful. The work being undertaken at a cost of Rs.17 crore is expected to be completed by January-end. White-topping involves covering of an existing asphalt pavement with layers of concrete. The method has also been recommended by the Indian Road Congress.Initially, the tarred road is chipped to make the surface rough on top, on which a bed of lean concrete is laid. This is then topped with quality concrete in a thick layer. “White-topping is three times more expensive than the normal bitumen surfacing. But, it easily lasts for a few decades without any maintenance. White-topped roads in Mumbai have lasted for half-a-century,” a senior PWD official said. It is being pointed out that the high cost for white-topping compared to normal surfacing evens out in the long run as white-topped roads hardly need any maintenance, while the latter entails recurring maintenance cost, especially in Kerala.Quality of materials“In Kerala, the quality of materials are not given due consideration in most road constructions. Usually their pre-defined quality is considered whereas it may not be suitable with site conditions. Use of poor quality materials is another reason for failure of roads,” said T. Elangovan, former head of Traffic and Transportation Division of National Transportation Planning and Research Centre (NATPAC).The pilot work, launched two years ago, had to be suspended for more than a year to facilitate conveyance of heavy material from the casting yard of Kochi Metro near HMT.Unlike the original plan to maintain the entire stretch as two-lane, more than half of the stretch has been converted into four lane, consuming more time. “Even in two-lane portions, width of 11 metres has been maintained wherever possible and the road has a height of 27 cm,” PWD official said.