http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/kozhikode/Questions-remain-on-Marad-probe/article13991493.ece

The Crime Branch’s admission to the Kerala High Court that it could not gather useable evidence suggesting any “larger conspiracy” behind the massacre of nine fishermen at Marad here may be a case of blatantly shoddy sleuthing, say retired police officers and lawyers associated with the incident.P.V. Hari, counsel for the Marad Judicial Inquiry Commission, said this apprehension is why the commission, almost 10 years ago, recommended a probe by Central agencies involving officers attached to the Intelligence Bureau, Central Bureau of Investigation, and the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence to look into the “larger conspiracy and fix liability.”He said the Thomas P. Joseph Commission of Inquiry into Marad Communal Disturbances had pointed out that the Crime Branch, which probed the case, had not investigated the larger conspiracy involving other forces, the source of all explosives, large quantity of weapons collected for the massacre, and the source of large funds used in the planning and execution of the massacre on the Marad beach on May 2, 2003.However, Additional Director General of Police (Crimes) S. Ananthakrishnan told The Hindu that the conspiracy angle, especially the international links, “required tough evidence” and added that the probe was “still going on.”The Left Democratic Front government had constituted a police team in June 2010 after the Centre refused to order a probe by the CBI into the possibility of involvement of external agencies in the incident.But this special team had been mired in controversies right from the beginning with differences of opinion among themselves.P.A. Valsan, outgoing Commissioner of Police, Kozhikode, who was then SP, Crime Branch (Economic Offences Wing), and N.P. Balakrishnan, former SP, State Special Branch, objected to the team being headed by former Crime Branch SP C.M. Pradeepkumar citing that the latter was junior to them, police sources said.Then SP Neeraj Kumar Gupta took charge of the probe and later Mr. Valsan took charge of it. A year ago, former Deputy Commissioner of Police K.B. Venugopal took over the investigation.The submission of the report comes close on the heels of Mr. Pradeepkumar approaching the High Court to implead in the petition seeking a CBI probe in the case. He had claimed that the Marad massacre was a terrorist activity with international connections. Kolakkadan Moosa Haji, in the original petition seeking a CBI probe, had said that a proper investigation had not been possible as many political leaders were involved in the case.CB did not probe larger plot angle: panelProbe still on, says Additional DGP