http://www.thehindu.com/sci-tech/QUESTION-CORNER/article13990292.ece

THOUGHT PROCESSHow do deaf people think? What language do they use for it?Arya MohanIn human beings, the thought process is mediated through their primary language, or the most frequently used language which will be their native language most of the time. There is no facility to monitor someone’s thoughts, other than to observe oneself. The next feasible method would be to watch how and what a person communicates. Because thoughts are what that get converted as words and actions.To understand a communication and deaf person, first let’s look into an infant’s communication process. Initially a new born baby communicates through crying, because it doesn’t know a pre learned set of symbols comprising a language. As time passes baby learns to vary cry patterns to respond for various situations. Later child learns to recognize mother’s voice and to differentiate it from others. He/she tries to imitate other’s speech through vocalisations, vocal play, cooing, babbling etc which progressively ends up in the production of the ‘first word.’ Thus, by observing an infant’s communication evolution, we understand that communication doesn't always require a pre learned language run on grammatical rules. Someone who doesn't know any language, including sign, may think of images of objects, people, places etc. This poses limitations.Meta linguistics (higher language skills) allow us the process of deep thinking which involve perception of grammatical rules, logic, rationality and judgement. A severely under developed deaf person may lack in meta linguistics thus compromising him/her in the area where human beings are considered as higher order animals ie, cognitive skills.Annu Anna Vinoy, Pathanamthitta, KeralaTHIS WEEK’S QUESTIONWhy there is fall in boiling point of water and other liquids at hills where there is fall in atmospheric pressure?Suryapalsingh JainReaders may send their questions/answers to questioncorner@thehindu.co.in