http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/Quite-a-company/article14024720.ece

For the uninitiated, Thanjavur Kesavan, a leading mridangam explonent of the Capital said, “Presentation of various musical instruments mainly percussion is called Tala Vadya Kutcheri. And I am presenting the same at Delhi Tamil Sangam with my team, bringing to the rasikas a melodious epiphany under the title Laya Pravaaham.” In this musical collaboration, Kesavan played the lead role with mridangam, Fakhruddin Ghaffari on tombak and daf, Shariq Mustafa on tabla, Ankur Bhandari was on drums, with Dr S Vasudevan on vocal, Jivitesh Kharabanda on bass guitar, Rajat Prasanna on flute and Shyam Rajan on lead guitar. As per the leader of the orchestra, “This was an attempt to uniquely present the music of both the East and the West.”An ardent listener of any kind of music and not just Indian classical would know that it is very difficult exercise to bring together several percussion instruments and fuse their sounds to render a fully-fledged concert. It would be therefore safe to say that team Laya Pravaaham did manage to live up to a genteel standard.They started the concert with ganesh stuti set in raga Malika/Adi Thalam. With rhythm and melody joining together bringing forward a harmonious blend, they presented a piece titled ‘Keeravani’ with the same raga as base. In this, each artist played his solo and the confluence was akin to weaving music of ecstasy.After a befitting experience of the “Irish” drum beats we were taken to raga Hamsadhwani and again the blend from the west to the east was smooth without any loose ends. The audience was quite in tune while listening to raga Kanaka Kuthokalam, and aptly so because the rasa of the raga is meant to evoke happiness.Vasudevan on vocals and Rajat on flute brought out the elegance of this amalgamation both in a bhajan and in a Saint Thyagaraja kruti. A typical dialogue amongst various instruments happened and that between Kesavan and Shariq was to take note of. The audience was fascinated as the artists played ‘Language of Rhythm’.As per Vasudevan, “In music, the beats can do immense magic by changing the moods of a person and that was evident when my team played ‘Dhaani-Tilting Moods’, based on raga Sudha.”To be associated with the recent harvest festival Pongal of Tamil Nadu, they played a folk piece with melodic intervention of both flute and bass guitar and the conclusion was with a traditional Thillana and Vande Mataram.