http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Quite-a-satisfying-encounter/article14026840.ece

Sometimes I wonder why I am such a biryani fiend. It doesn’t make sense because I am not a rice eater and would any day prefer rotis to rice. Nor am I (I might as well confess) greatly into mutton or chicken. I love the gravy in a meat curry much more than the pieces. Then what is it that makes me so fond of biryanis?Well, I don’t have the answer to that. All that I know is that last week, I found myself wandering around the main market in Chittaranjan Park, knocking at the doors of a biryani corner that I have been frequenting in recent times. The biryani place was still to open. That was when I spotted a journo in front of another interesting looking eatery. I call it interesting because there were people crowding it, and everybody seemed intent on what they were eating. “This is a good place,” the journo-friend said, and pointed helpfully towards his friend who was eagerly demolishing a plate of biryani.So, of course, I had to stop there and test the food out at Bengal Snacks. This is in Market Number 1 (Shop no.53 in main fish market in Chittaranjan Park).If you like your Bengali snacks, this is the place for you. It serves all the good stuff that an evening tea in a Bengali home cannot do without – and at affordable prices. The vegetable chop (stuffed with mashed beetroot), mochar chop (with mashed banana flower) and fish fry are for Rs.20 a piece. Chicken and mutton chops are for Rs.30 and Rs.40 respectively. A dish called egg devil chop (also known as dimer devil, a boiled egg covered with minced meat and then fried) is for Rs.40 for chicken mince, Rs.50 for mutton.I, as you would guess, was in dire need of mutton biryani. But it was early evening and the degh was still to open. So I asked for some chicken biryani (Rs.250), kosha mangsho with roomali roti (Rs.200), prawn chops (Rs.40) and special mutton ghugnee (Rs.30). While the food was being packed, I tried out the ghugnee –– chickpeas cooked with minced meat, garnished with some finely chopped onions and thought it was excellent. The meat added flavour to the chholey, which had been lightly cooked and spiced.The dinner at home was rather nice, for the chicken biryani as I had been assured by the journo-friend’s biryani-eating friend was very good. These days I like my biryani to be a bit light (and without the bright colours of the Dilli biryani), and this was white and brown, cooked without too much oil, but redolent with the flavours of whole spices. The kosha mangsho, again, was excellent – nice plump pieces of meat in thick and spicy gravy. They had unfortunately forgotten to pack the roomali roti, so I had the meat gravy with a home-cooked roti. I had thought the prawn chop wouldn’t have too much of prawn in it (that’s been my experience in many of the small eateries in C.R. Park), but was pleasantly surprised to find chunky prawn pieces in it.At the end of it, I wasn’t the least bit unhappy that my favourite biryani counter hadn’t opened that evening. That’s how I was introduced to Bengal Snacks. And I hope to keep the relationship going.Tel: 9899551023 and 9810393272.(The writer is a seasoned street food connoisseur)