http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Quick-fix-but-with-a-twist/article13981971.ece

Interlocking tiles with that extra bit of shine appears to be the latest choice for a quick fix on the city roads these days. Recently, the entire stretch of the steep path that leads down from the main road to the Eve’s Beach in Kovalam was paved with interlocking tiles. Though those who ride frequently through this path are thankful that they don’t have to negotiate potholes anymore, at least some of them have found it too smooth for comfort. They point at the chances of the path turning slippery once the rain sets in. Last week, a short stretch on the one way from Plamood to PMG junction was also paved with interlocking tiles.Lack of parking space was, and to some extent, still is a major problem in the city. With the recent efforts by the City police to streamline the flow of traffic and to tackle obstructive parking through a slew of measures, things appear to be changing. The introduction of parking zones on MG Road and on the Vellayambalam-Shastamangalam Road has had a telling effect, with an interesting spinoff being that many commercial enterprisesare now making their own arrangements to provide parking space so as not to lose customers. While a private space on MG Road is seeing better patronage now, there are at least three such plots on the Vellayambalam-Sasthamangalam stretch that has been made available for customers of particular establishments. While two of them which were used for parking earlier are being better utilised now, another hotel has rented out an empty plot to provide parking for its customers.The undulating road from the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology to Melarannoor offers a good exercise for morning walkers. However, unlike many stretches in the city where clean-ups are the norm, this road is littered with garbage all through. Plastic covers, disposable containers, food leftovers securely tied up all make it an eyesore.The stench too is unbearable. Packs of dogs foraging for food and crows drag the piled up waste on to the road, making travel a distasteful experience. Cleaning personnel at a colony en route rake up all dead leaves and plastic waste together and burn them only a few metres apart, the smoke rising up with the wind and entering people’s lungs.With the Corporation turning a blind eye to the problem, travel through the stretch is an exercise in avoiding garbage for motorists and those on foot.(Reporting byS.R. Praveen, Dennis Marcus Mathew, and R.K. Roshni)