http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/fashion/Quite-a-feat-for-the-casual-pair/article13990329.ece

Like they say, Cinderella is proof that a new pair of shoes can change your life! Interestingly though, we aren’t just referring to towering shoes made of glass. Take a good look around, and you are bound to see chicly-dressed women sporting super-cool casual shoes in interesting colours and prints.Fashion blogger and photographer, Manvi Gandotra, states, “Pumps have dominated the runway for years, and it’s only over the past six seasons that we have witnessed runway shows where casual shoes are proving to be very much in the game!”According to Naina Ruhail, makeup artist and blogger, “We love looking glamorous and wearing high heels, but there are days when you just feel like being comfortable and showing off your casual side. And there’s no better time than now to do just that!”For Pranita Mehta, stylist and fashion blogger, life has been much easier since street fashion walked the runways. “Personally, I’ve finally got a chance to flaunt my comfort-driven style. My everyday go-to style involves a simple tee, a favourite pair of jeans and casual shoes. They are cool, comfortable yet chic, and given the numerous styles available today, there’s nothing more you would want,” she opines.Most styles of casual shoes look good when paired with denims, shorts, or casual dresses. Naina says, “Loafers look great with skater skirts and fitted pants. And espadrilles are my go-to shoes when you talk about vacation. These scream casual and can be teamed with skirts, dresses, shorts or pants.”Pranita casts her vote in favour of platform sandals, funky lace-ups, and slip-on flats. “I love the versatility that comes with wearing casual shoes. They are available in leather, PU, metallic shades, and fabric. As far as styling goes, for me, a pair of jeans and a tee would go well with each of these, depending on the occasion. I also wear them with short dresses to keep a mix of femininity and coolness. When I feel a little dramatic, I play around with prints in my outfit and shoes.” Remember when you first heard of boyfriend jeans? Now, it’s the turn for brogues (men’s shoes) to make their way into women’s closets. These are perfect if you’re looking to pull off a nonchalant outfit or a tomboyish or geeky look.If you’re a fan of funky prints, brands like Chumbak have come out with their line of must-haves. Somanna, head-marketing, Chumbak, says, “We picked some of the best designs from our apparel collection, which would be perfect fits for our shoes.”While casual shoes allow you to experiment with different types of clothing and accessories, there are some don’ts to keep in mind. “The core of this trend lies in embracing the chic factor with a major dose of casual style. Hence, being comfortable is essential. However, the casual shoe trend should not be mixed with any strict dress code. A formal dress code is a strict no-no for casual shoes. Also, long dresses that hide these shoes look awkward,” Pranita explains. Naina says she would steer clear of wearing casual shoes to a party too.But for every other occasion, these are your best bet. So what are you waiting for?