http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/Rabi-crop-nearly-fails-due-to-water-shortage/article13991350.ece

The current rabi season in Adilabad can be termed as a near flop thanks to shortage of water to irrigate the fields for the second crop under Kadem dam, Saraswati canal and the Sadarmat anicut along the Godavari belt in the district. The shortfall in sowing is about 25 per cent of the normally cultivated area of 65,000 hectares during this season.The deficit would have been much greater had not a large number of farmers gone in for the Bengal gram crop which does not require good spells of rain. The crop thrives on the early morning dew which again has gone scarce this winter owing to the comparatively higher temperatures being recorded at present.Against the normal Bengal gram area of about 7,500 hectares, sowing has taken place in about 21,000 hectares. The crop is expected to command good price too a little later.Paddy cultivation has taken a severe beating with only 2,670 hectares coming under it in rabi. Only those farmers who have lands irrigated by borewells have cultivated paddy for the second time.Release of water for the second crop from Kadem mandal has been stopped following the drop in the water level in its reservoir. The water storage level in the dam, which is designed to irrigate 70,000 hectares in Kadem, Jannaram, Dandepalli and Luxettipet mandals chiefly, stands at 685.5 ft against its full reservoir level of 700 ft.It may be recalled that as much as 1.7 tmc ft of water was released into Godavari river in July last year during Godavari Pushkaralu. Only 2.1 tmc ft of water could be used for irrigation during kharif as water could not be collected in the reservoir to its capacity of 7.5 tmc ft due to deficit rainfall.The Saraswati canal entering the district from the Sriramsagar Project is also running dry as there is hardly any water in the huge project in the neighbouring Nizamabad district. There will be no cultivation under its 35,000 acres of ayacut this rabi.The 124-year-old Sadarmat anicut, located on Godavari in Khanapur mandal, will also not support any agriculture along its nearly 7,000 acres of ayacut. No water flows in its 13-km long left flank canal or 3-km long Badankurti canal.Being completely dry, the anicut presents a pathetic look as this is the only irrigation water body in Adilabad district which wets the extent of land for which it was designed. The scenario has even become grim as picnickers too are shunning the beautiful place.