http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/sport/Raina-may-be-saving-his-best-for-the-final/article14008105.ece

You couldn’t ignore the sense of purpose with which Suresh Raina arrived for Uttar Pradesh’s net session at the Wankhede on Tuesday.For starters, he only had his friend, Ali Hamid Zaidi, for company. A few minutes later, senior pro Praveen Kumar joined them. Soon, Raina got down to business, middling the ball so well that it created that discrete echo one is so accustomed to hearing in an empty stadium.This went on for 20 minutes after which the rest of the team trooped in. After joining his mates in a huddle, Raina duly made his way to the corner net and started executing those delightful lofts.In the wee hours of Friday, Raina and five other players will depart for Australia where the Indian team has yet to find a way to eke out a win.By the time Raina settles into his hotel room, the fifth and final ODI will be upon India.The southpaw will have just two more days to gear up for the first Twenty20, in Adelaide, on Republic Day.But before embarking on that short trip to the Southern Hemisphere, there’s the small matter of taking Uttar Pradesh over the finish line in the final of Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy here on Wednesday.For those who believe in the Law of Averages, Raina has tallied 111 runs in five outings in this competition. That, however, hasn’t stopped Uttar Pradesh from racking up eight straight victories (five in Group ‘C’ in Cuttack, three in the Super League in Mumbai). Who knows, Raina is probably saving his best for last.A comprehensive show with the bat — and with the thinking cap on — against Baroda on a floodlit evening may be his idea of a perfect statement of intent.Comeback manComebacks are never easy. And Raina, who is making an umpteenth return to the national squad, pretty well knows that.The fact that he knows he will be on that plane irrespective of the outcome of this final augurs well for him. Then again, the Wankhede is familiar territory for Raina, as it is for any India and IPL star.Talking of IPL stars, Hardik Pandya will also feature in Wednesday’s star-studded contest.The highest run-getter of the tournament, Pandya has already turned heads with his unique brand of hitting in this format.How he would love to trump Raina on a big night! If he does, he will have a chance to pull Raina’s leg on the long flight two nights later. That’s something Raina could do without.