http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Rainwater-tanks-for-Chambakkulam/article14016653.ece

Over 200 rainwater harvesting tanks have been set up in Chambakkulam block panchayat under the integrated water management programme. The project, intended to help tide over water scarcity during summer, envisages construction of 270 tanks.The tanks are being set up in house compounds, schools and public places. The project is being implemented in selected areas of Kainakari, Nedumudi, and Chambakkulam grama panchayats. The panchayat is surrounded by waterbodies, but potable water resources are scarce. Rainwater harvesting is considered the ideal solution under the prevailing situation.Each tank has a capacity of 5,000 litres. Construction of 229 tanks has been completed and work is underway on 41 tanks. About 200 tanks have already been filled with water. Over 10 lakh litres of water have been stored in the tanks, according to block panchayat officials. The cost of each tank is over Rs.40,000. The beneficiary will have to pay 5 per cent of the cost while the remaining is borne by the Union government.Unsafe ponds, canalsScarcity of potable water is a perennial problem for people in Kuttanad. Though they collect rain water in small tanks, it won’t be sufficient to meet the requirement during summer season. People used to depend on ponds and canals for water in summer. Such sources are now unsafe for consumption.A study conducted a few years ago by Central Ground Water Board had pointed out that the deltaic plains, criss-crossed by canals, lagoons, estuaries, and backwaters, pose problems in ensuring potable water to the people throughout the year. Coastal erosion and tidal effect too affect the quality of groundwater, up to 12 km from the coast.The CGWB report said most of Kuttanad lie submerged most of the year. It is subjected to the twin hazards of flood discharge during monsoon and sea water ingress during summer on either side of the Vembanad lake. Under the World Bank-assisted hydrology project taken up over a decade ago, the infrastructure on groundwater monitoring was strengthened. The CGWB had monitored water level from Ground Water Monitoring Wells. A major part of the district is coastal plains. The general elevation of the area is less than 6 metre above mean sea level with some parts of the area below mean sea level in the range of 1-2 metres, the report said.Tanks to be set up in schools, houses, public placesEach tank willhave a capacity of5,000 litres