http://www.thehindu.com/features/kids/Raining-gifts/article13999378.ece

“Bother the rain,” said Meg to herself, as she peeped out of the window. The rain was falling in sheets.“Mother, does it have to rain like this on my birthday?” said Meg, as her mother came into the room with a hot cup of milk. “No friends, no party, no cake, no presents…Bah!”“Now, stop mooning about, Meg,” said her mother. “You sound gloomier than this dark, rainy day.”“But it’s so boring having nothing to do except sit and read books,” said Meg, stamping her foot in anger. “I hate this rain.”A dreary dayMother peeped out of the window. She watched the rain fall. The red rose bush by the side of the fence was soggy. A rose blossom had bent down its tiny head unable to bear the heavy rain drops.“Hmm. Maybe the rain is coming down a little more than necessary, Meg,” she said with a smile. “But you should not hate it. Don’t you know that the rain is important to us?”“Meg, I am popping out for a while for milk and groceries. Would you like to come with me?” said Father, as he came into the room.Meg quickly put on her red, daisy-patterned raincoat and the blue boots and followed her father out.She felt a blast of wet, rainy breeze hit her face. She sniffed at the fresh air. It felt good to be outside.They trudged down to the front gate, their heavy wet boots making a squishy-squelchy sounds. Down the road they went, and round the corner. The road was wet and Meg held on to her father’s arm for dear life.“Meg, hold on,” her father suddenly said. “Can you see that?”Meg looked up. Something was moving towards them.“Wait here. I’ll go check on it,” said her father.He waded towards the ‘thing’. Meg saw him bend down, pick up something and put it inside his coat.Meg said, “What’s that, what did you find?”“A puppy,” said her father. “It is wet and looks woebegone, poor thing.”Meg parted the lapel of Father’s raincoat and peeped in. A little brown eye forlornly looked back at her. It looked hungry too.“Meg, we will go home and leave the puppy behind for mother to take care of. Then we can go and get the groceries,” said father.At home, Mother wiped the puppy’s fur with a soft flannel and gave it a bowl of milk to drink.“Meg, now that the puppy’s taken care of, shall we go get the grocery?” asked Father.“I think I will stay back and take care of the puppy,” said Meg. “He looks such a sweet thing. I love the rain. It’s not only bringing in water but presents for my birthday, too!”Game: Amazing findCheck out the slideshow and try your hand at the game we have for you.