http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/Ram-Madhav-takes-a-dig-at-Aamir-Khan/article14000187.ece

Taking a dig at Bollywood actor Aamir Khan for his recent remark on the “growing intolerance” in the country, BJP national general secretary Ram Madhav said that instead of preaching outsiders about India’s culture, he should first teach his wife. Mr. Madhav was speaking at the “Makar Sankranti Annual Meet” in Delhi University’s SGTB Khalsa College on Thursday where he launched a counter attack on artists and writers who recently launched an “award vapsi” drive in protest of alleged intolerance in the country.“Every citizen of America gets respect because of the name its country holds in the world. Similarly, we also want to make India a respected nation worldwide. If nation is respected, its citizens also get respect. There is no need of “award vapsi”. You do not safeguard your country like that. Every citizen should be respected here and if anything wrong happens that will be taken care of,” he said.Talking about the Bollywood actor’s remark on intolerance he said: “You go and tell auto drivers about the culture and honour of the country and not your wife? It will not work if you preach an auto driver on how country’s prestige has to be saved but not tell the same to your own wife”.Referring to the security scene of the country, he said: “We are dedicated to the security of the country. We want good relations with our neighbours but no compromise would be made with either China or Pakistan over the security of the country’s borders as well as its self-respect.”“Our goal is to ensure security, prosperity, respect and equality for every citizen of India. We are responsible to the people of India and our objective is to bring out a positive change in the country. We have to learn about the pain of present times, glory of the past and dreams of the future,” he added.He further sent good wishes to Indians on the occasion of Makar Sankranti, he said: “Sankranti is all about celebrating positive changes in the society as a festival. Sankranti means “thorough change” and “Change for good”.He said that instead of preaching outsiders about India’s culture, Aamir should teach his wife