http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/Rape-accused-attempts-suicide-outside-Kejriwal%E2%80%99s-residence/article13990227.ece

High drama unfolded at the Chief Minister’s residence in Civil Lines in north Delhi where a rape accused property dealer seeking an audience with the chief minister consumed poison on Friday morning.Anoop Singh, who claims to be “framed” for a financial dispute, is undergoing treatment at Lok Nayak Hospital. Police said he had consumed a limited quantity of poison meant for termites and his condition is stable.Singh’s wife Meenu has claimed that the couple’s failure to meet the CM prompted him to take the drastic step. “We had tried to meet CM Kejriwal in November too, but were not granted an audience,” Meenu claimed and in support of her statement produced a letter addressed to Kejriwal.On Friday, the couple landed up outside Kejriwal’s official residence in Civil Lines. Eyewitnesses told police that Singh first hurled a bottle into the residence compound before barging inside with froth emanating from his mouth.“A little of the poison he had consumed in front of me and the rest inside a bathroom,” Meenu told The Hindu . She claimed to have been unaware of her husband’s plans.Singh’s act, however, failed to draw any sympathy or leniency from the South-West district police who readied their personnel at the hospital soon after he was admitted. “The accused will be arrested as soon as he is discharged,” said RA Sanjeev, DCP (South-West).Singh has been booked for the alleged rape of a woman in Dabri area on Thursday night. Police said that the complainant, a married woman known to Singh’s wife, had called the PCR to inform that Singh had raped her in a park after spiking her soft drink.A police team had been immediately dispatched to his residence to arrest him, but Singh and his wife were not to be found. Police picked up Singh’s brother Kartar instead in a bid to get to the rape accused.Meenu has alleged that her husband was being framed at the behest of some “goons” in her area from whom she and Singh had borrowed Rs 1 lakh cash a few months ago. With the couple unable to repay back, those persons had tried to take over her parlour that had been mortgaged.Meenu alleges that she and her brother-in-law had been beaten up by some men and women who had tried to “force enter” the parlour. The other side, though, lodged a FIR alleging Meenu and Kartar had misbehaved and ripped the clothes of some of those women. Kartar was arrested and released on bail some days later.Singh remained missing all through those incidents until Thursday when he was accused of rape, said police.