http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/Ravana-learns-a-lesson/article13986295.ece

Shades of valor and romance adorned the face of Kottakkal Chandrasekhara Warrier as he ceremoniously brought down the curtain and started enacting his role of Ravana in ‘Balivijayam’. The actor, who celebrated his 70th birthday less than few weeks ago, once again shone in the Kathi attire, for which his name has become synonymous these days.The presentation featured the not-so-often presented first scene, better known as ‘Karavimsathi’, in which Ravana appears with Mandodari in a romantic mood. His portrayal of Ravana’s tens heads and twenty hands of Ravana competing with each other to shower affection on Mandodari was presented with dexterity. Mathur Muralikrishnan appeared as Mandodari and essayed the role well.The mood then shifts to valor as Ravana listens to Narada telling him that Bali, the monkey king, considered Ravana as ‘nothing more than a shred of grass’. Initially, Narada sings the praises of Ravana and the King distinctively reacting to each one added drama to the recital. Mathur Govindankutty has appeared in the role of Narada innumerable times and once again he did it with ease, bringing tinges of humour wherever he could.Narada succeeds in convincing Ravana that Bali needs to be silenced, before the lord of Lanka becomes the laughing stock of others. Ravana sets out with his sword Chandrahasa. Then Narada wonders what was so special about that sword. Thus, the actor in the role of Ravana gets a chance to narrate how he managed to receive the sword from Lord Shiva.The two elaborated attams – ‘Kailasodharanam’ and ‘Parvathyviraham’ – forms the content of this narrative. Time was limited and hence Chandrasekhara Warrier chose to present the latter one alone. As the play is all about Ravana realising that he was no match for Bali, it might have been apt if the former one was presented as it depicts the valor, arrogance and strength of Ravana. Later, Ravana and Narada set off to find Bali and teach him a lesson. However, Ravana leaves his sword behind. Eventually, Ravana ends up bound in Bali’s tail.The role of Bali is not prominent in the play but Kalamandalam Balakrishnan made it stand out. The play ends with Bali releasing Ravana and offering his hand in friendship.It was tough for singers Pathiyoor Sankarankutty and Kalamandalam Krishnakumar as the microphones failed completely towards the end. Yet, they still did well. Percussionists led by Kalamandalam Krishnadas (chenda) and Kalanilayam Manoj (maddalam), who were supported by Kalanilayam Krishnakumar and Kalamandalam Sreehari, elevated the aesthetics of the play.The event was organised by Mathur Kalari as part of their anniversary programme.