http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Visakhapatnam/Rayapati%E2%80%99s-statement-against-rail-zone-in-Vizag-draws-flak/article13990108.ece

Narsaraopeta MP Rayapati Sambasiva Rao’s statement against locating the headquarters of the Railway Zone in Visakhapatnam on the pretext that the place is vulnerable to cyclones and that the facility would be “blown away,” has strongly been criticised by political leaders and student and youth organisations.Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu had repeatedly been saying that Visakhapatnam would be the zone’s headquarters and he must ensure that, they said.Senior leader and former Minister Dadi Veerabhadra Rao termed Mr. Sambasiva Rao’s statement “arrogant” and an insult to the people of north coastal Andhra, and demanded that he withdraw the statement.Mr. Chandrababu Naidu and Union Minister M. Venkaiah Naidu have repeatedly stated that the Railway Zone would come up here and the MP’s statement was against party’s line, he said.“The TDP should also express its regret,” Mr. Veerabhadra Rao said.“Does not river Krishna experience floods and cause damage?” he asked.RevenueThe Railways, which has 808 acres of land, including 200 acres adjacent to the Visakhapatnam Railway Station, need not acquire additional land to set up its zone headquarters while it does not have that much land in Guntur or Vijayawada. Also, Waltair Division has a revenue of Rs. 6,000 crore, with Visakhapatnam station contributing an overwhelming share, while the revenue of Vijayawada and Guntur are Rs.3,000 crore and Rs.500 crore respectively.MLA P.V.G.R. Naidu (Ganababu) asked Mr. Sambasiva Rao not to make insulting statements. “What does he know about Visakhapatnam? We have shown our resilience by overcoming the massive damage done by Hudhud,” Mr. Ganababu said.Anakapalle MP M. Srinivasa Rao condemned the comments of Mr. Sambasiva Rao.The Chief Minister would meet the Prime Minister later this month on the issue, he said.“Visakhapatnam will be obvious choice for location of the new zone and we are ready to go to any extent to achieve it,” he asserted.The Navandhra Parirakshana Samiti and the Uttarandhra Vidyardhi Sangham staged a demonstration demanding that Mr. Naidu suspend Mr. Sambasiva Rao from the TDP, and criticised the Uttarandhra MPs for not condemning the MP’s statement.They demanded that the Central Government come out with a clear statement on the zone issue.Palaka Sriramamurthy, Abraham Sumanth, Samayam Hemanth Kumar and others participated.The Andhra Pradesh Students and Youth JAC lodged a complaint with the III Town Police against Mr. Sambasiva Rao for insulting the people of Uttarandhra, and sought action against him. Areti Mahesh and others lodged the complaint. City Congress president Behera Bhaskara Rao said Mr. Sambasiva Rao’s derogatory statement only reflected the “double game” the TDP was playing, but locals would not allow the zone headquarters to go away from the city. CPI(M) district secretary K. Lokanadham said Mr. Sambasiva Rao displayed his mean mentality through his statement.The Justice Sri Krishna Commission recommended establishing a new Railway Zone with headquarters in Visakhapatnam at the time of bifurcation, he reminded.