http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/RBI-Governor-pats-AP-for-land-pooling-policy/article14012071.ece

Reserve Bank of India Governor Raghuram Rajan has appreciated Andhra Pradesh Government’s land pooling policy for the capital region.During his interaction with Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu at Davos as part of ongoing World Economic Forum annual meeting late on Wednesday, Mr. Rajan said that it was a very innovative process.He was all praise for Andhra Pradesh hoardings and ‘Make AP Your Business’ bus that was creating a buzz on the streets of Davos.Mr. Naidu explained to the RBI Governor about the State Government’s efforts to drought-proof the State in the next few years and emphasised the need for additional support to agriculture allied activities such as dairy, poultry, fisheries etc.Mr. Rajan, according to a release from the Chief Minister’s Office, responded positively and assured that he would explore the possibilities for modifying the current practices to facilitate better results.Mr. Naidu also briefed Mr. Rajan about e-Pragathi to provide unified and connected governance with citizen centricity at its core. The State also completed Aadhar seeding and brought in transparency in the PDS through e-PoS (Electronic point of sale).Siemens, Welspun look towards APAndhra Pradesh may be home to some prestigious companies soon going by the interest evinced by their top representatives.Textile giant Welspun Group has come forward to explore opportunities for setting up textile manufacturing plant in the State. Company Chairman B.K. Goenka who interacted with Mr. Naidu on the growth potential of textiles and apparel industry in the State indicated that a team from the company would soon visit Andhra Pradesh.Dr. Roland Busch, member of Managing Board, Siemens expressed interest in setting up a power grid simulation and transport planning system in the State.Given that Siemens is a leading pioneer in urban infrastructure, smart grids, transport, signalling, Mr. Chandrababu Naidu invited their assistance for building Andhra Pradesh capital Amaravati.During their meeting, the Chief Minister elaborated on ‘Smart Village – Smart Ward’ programme and how his government was keen on implementing international best practices for building world-class cities.