http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/Re-nominate-Delhi-to-UNESCO-list-Kapil-Mishra-requests-Centre/article14012691.ece

Delhi Tourism Minister Kapil Mishra has requested Union Culture Minister Mahesh Sharma to re-nominate Delhi to UNESCO’s List of World Heritage Cities.Delhi was in the race for the much-coveted tag and a lot of groundwork was also done for the purpose, but the Central government pulled out of the race last year.In his letter, Mr. Mishra has said that Delhi had proposed “Delhi’s Imperial Capital Cities” for nomination to the list. The nomination was to be discussed at the 39{+t}{+h}Session of the World Heritage Committee, held in Bonn, Germany, in June. “It is, however, informed that just before the meeting in Bonn, the nomination of “Delhi’s Imperial Capital Cities” was either withdrawn or deferred,” the letter dated January 20 read.Stating that no “formal communication” was sent to the Delhi government regarding the withdrawal, Mr. Mishra also said that despite the Delhi Chief Secretary sending a communiqué to the Union Ministry of Culture, no reply has been received by the Delhi government.Mr. Mishra also highlighted the fact that the Delhi government had spent a considerable amount of time and resources on the nomination process and proceeded with the nomination only after the Ministry of Urban Development gave its consent in writing.The preliminary nomination of Delhi for the heritage tag was first submitted in January 2012, following which a delegation of the International Council on Monuments and Sites visited Delhi to assess the nomination. The Centre, however, pulled out of the race last year without assigning any reason officially. The reason, reportedly, was the apprehension that a heritage tag will hamper urban development work in the city due to the restrictions on such activities that the tag would have brought.Mr. Mishra has requested Mr. Sharma that the dossier of nomination may be sent for the next nomination cycle at the 40th Session of the World Heritage Committee, to be held in Istanbul in July.“With its rich and cosmopolitan cultural heritage, Delhi is like a ‘Mini-India’. It is essential that this rich cultural heritage of Delhi is projected before the world in right earnest. Any endeavour in this regard should not be looked at with political considerations,” he has written.Unofficial reason was apprehension that heritage tag will hamper urban development work