http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/chennai/Readerss-Mail-Chennai/article14005076.ece

Government needs to grant better reliefThe relief of Rs.5,000 granted by the State towards flood damages is an affront, considering the colossal damage residents, living on the ground floor, have faced. On December 2, the residential complex on Motilal Street in T Nagar, where I live, was completely inundated by flood water which wrought irreparable damage to domestic appliances and personal belongings, like cots, mattresses and pillows. Residents have spent huge sums cleaning the mess. The present grant is a pittance and the government must think of those who have retired and have no means of earning.V.S. Jayaraman,T. NagarStormwater drain requiredAn open drain running along side the Ambattur Railway station behind Godrej Factory has not been cleaned and several encrochments are located there. The rain clogged the drain resulting in flooding which led to the collapse of compound walls of factories, including the Government-owned Aavin dairy. The Corporation needs to immediately construct a stormwater drain to prevent flooding at the Ambattur Industrial Estate.T. Gunaseelan,VaratharajapuramDanger lurks near schoolMogappair West, which has innumerable schools and business establishments, is plagued with several civic issues. But the issues surrounding the private school on 120-Feet Road, off Mogappair Industrial Road, need urgent attention. An unsafe footpath, with broken concrete slabs and protruding iron rods, makes it a perilous walk for both school children and pedestrians. Adjacent to the school, an Aavin Parlour has an open drain alongside it which poses a threat to children. A child had fallen into the open manhole during the recent rain.Also, cables hang precariously low, posing a risk to unsuspecting walkers. Authorities need to immediately swing into action and save lives.E.S. Chandrasekaran,Mogappair WestClose gaps around gatesA gap on both ends of the railway level crossing at Chromepet (near Saravana Stores) allows motorcyclists to cross the track even when the gates are shut. I request officials to take the necessary action in closing the gaps.Khushbu Doshi,ChromepetGarbage, a threatThe non-clearance of garbage at 63{+r}{+d}Street in 10{+t}{+h}Sector, KK Nagar, poses a threat to the health of residents.The Corporation, needs to act on a priority basis to clear the garbage.C. Sampath,K.K. NagarRe-lay roadsThe stretch between St. Thomas Mount and Guindy railway stations and Race Course Road via Adambakkam NGO colony and also the stretch on Medavakkam Main Road from Madipakkam Koot road bus stop to Vanuvampet are completely battered.The authorities concerned need to immediately re-lay them.A. Raghavan,NanganallurReaders can send grievances about civic issues and share pictures to reporting.thehindu@gmail.com