http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Visakhapatnam/Realise-value-of-vote-people-told/article14021134.ece

Programmes were held all over the district to mark the sixth National Voters’ Day on Monday. Human chains were formed and rallies held to make the people aware of the importance to get registered as voter and to cast their votes in the elections without fail.Speaking at a meeting at the Zilla Praja Parishad Meeting Hall, District Collector N. Yuvaraj said everyone must understand the value of exercising his or her franchise and to protect and nurture democracy. By exercising franchise one would understand his or her responsibility in democracy and would also help in electing good rulers, he said.Every one who has completed 18 years of age must get registered as voter. Visakhapatnam with 33 lakh voters is third in the State but registration of voters must be increased, the Collector said.There was a need to increase voter registration in urban areas, particularly in the background of elections to the GVMC and municipalities in the near future, GVMC Commissioner Pravin Kumar said.Joint Collector J. Nivas said Indians should be proud of citizens of a country in which democratic process was being total in practice. Several countries consult the Election Commission of India in conducting elections, he said. Joint Collector-II D. Venkata Reddy presided.Mr. Yuvaraj gave away prizes and certificates to the winners of competitions held on the right to vote for school and college students. Mr. Reddy informed that D. Priyanka of St. Joseph’s College for Women won first prize in the State-level elocution competition.Senior citizens who had exercised their franchise for several times were felicitated by the Collector.Earlier Mr. Yuvaraj and others officials participated in a human chain formed by students at the Jagadamba Junction. The Collector administered the voters’ day oath to them. Later a rally was held to the ZPP building.At Andhra University, Vice-Chancellor G.S.N. Raju flagged off a rally organised by the NSS unit and urged the youngsters to cast their vote in the proper manner to elect persons who could administer well.At the Sri Kanakamahalakshmi temple, Executive Officer S. J. Madhavi administered the voters’ day to the staff. GVMC Zonal Commissioner of Gajuwaka B.V. Ramana and other officials and students formed a human chain.Mr. Ramana administered the voters’ day and gave away prizes to students who won competitions held as part of the National Voter’s Day and to the best performing staff.