http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/tamil-nadu/Readers%E2%80%99-Mail-Tirunelveli/article14020856.ece

Construct buildingfor post officeThe Jawahar Nagar Post Office in N.G.O. Colony, Tirunelveli, is at present functioning in a rented portion of a private residential house.There is no roofing in front of the counter and hence the public who visit the post office have to stand in the open.As there is no seating arrangement for the public, they are put to much inconvenience.Nowadays, who else other than senior citizens visit post offices? The N.G.O. Colony consists of mostly retired government employees and teachers who are in their advanced age and they find it too difficult to transact their business in the absence of a suitable seating arrangement.In this connection, I wish to point out that the NGO colony Cooperative Housing Society has already allotted a prime land on the colony's North Main road to the Department of Posts for the construction of a post office. But the vacant site lies unutilised for decades, serving now only as a dumping yard.Hence it is requested that the local postal department personnel may take up the matter with their higher-ups for allotment of funds for the construction of a post office with all modern amenities.S. Nallasivan,Tirunelveli.Ban junk foodSchools affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education are now complying with instructions in a recently-issued circular which enjoins them to ensure no junk food is provided or sold on the premises. (Jan 17). Since childhood obesity is on the rise, prevention will certainly reduce incidence of of obesity in children in these schools.Teachers in every primary and secondary school should enlighten the children about obesity and related diseases in consuming junk food.In the interest of their children, parents should not allow them to consume junk food.The State government may issue orders to all schools banning the sale and use of junk food on and around the campus.Victor Selvaraj,Palayamkottai.Re-lay all roadsMost of the roads in Tirunelveli, Tuticorin and Nagerciol have been battered by the bountiful rain during the northeast monsoon, giving a tough time for vehicle users and thanks to The Hindu for highlighting the issue often. Recently, the Tirunelveli Collector issued instructions for setting right the roads and immediately certain measures were taken up by the Corporation as well as PWD by filling the potholes with stone and sand. One such stretch is between Samathanapuram Corner and District Police Office near water tank. As the sand became dry and taken away by the winds the condition of this stretch has turned worse. In some places, they have used crusher powder to level the road and vehicles kick up a dust ‘storm,’ causing inconvenience to road users. I request the authorities to take steps to relay all the damaged roads with bitumen.E. Rajakumar Arulanandham,Palayamkottai.