http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/tamil-nadu/Readers%E2%80%99-Mail-Madurai/article14020193.ece

Bad condition of roadsAll the six roads and two cross streets of Railar Nagar are uniformly in an awful state of repair. It is not an aftermath of recent rain, but they have remained so for the past 10 to 15 years. Some namesake patch work attempted in a couple of streets and that too in certain stretches remains incomplete with sporadic spreading of ballast in a thin layer. No further progress of any worth has been seen since the last two weeks after the said cursory work. The most woeful part of the story lies in the second street, rather the narrow lane of hardly 10 feet width branching off the main Palamedu Road. This is the gateway to not only Railar Nagar residents but also to vast sections of people in the neighbouring TNHB IV Sector Podhigai Nagar. It is a perilous path, at least, for the first 50 meters with full of deep pot holes. This narrow feeder road from Railar Nagar to Palamedu main road is extensively used by cargo-laden mini lorries, school vans, auto rickshaws etc., besides hundreds of two-wheelers.There is absolutely no space left on either side for pedestrians to take shelter in the edges. To tide over this problem, the road can be widened to about 10 feet on the southern side of the second street.M. Kamala,Railar NagarExpedite projectThe Madurai-Tirupuvanam-Manamadurai-Paramakudi-Ramanathapuram-Mandapam-Rameswaram road is a vital tourist route. The Central government approved the Madurai-Rameswarm road widening project in 2010 but there has been delay in its implementation. . I request the National Highways Authority of India to speed up this project without further delay.G. Chitti Babu,Velmurugan NagarRelay roadThe surface of the road from Tirupparankundram to Avaniapuram has sunk in many places. This is an important road and a shortcut to the airport. Many students use the stretch to reach their colleges. It is absolutely necessary to relay the road to a distance of two km from Tirupparankundram police station.DSM. Mohaideen,Velmurugan NagarImprove amenitiesThe Madurai airport lacks basic amenities in many ways. Everyday, people visit the airport in large numbers either to receive or send off their close relatives, friends and business clients. They are forced to stand in the open for hours together. Elders and women undergo much inconvenience, particularly during summer and rainy seasons. There is no good restaurant to sell food items at reasonable prices. Provision for drinking water and neat and clean toilets should necessarily be made. Seating arrangements can be done outside and the entry fee should be below Rs. 25. The airport authorities are requested to look into the lapses and do the needful.K.R. Rajendran,Mahal 2nd StreetBetter link neededThe Madurai airport is handling foreign flights for the past more than two years. Though expanded to handle international flights, night landing facility is not yet provided. By providing night landing facility, the airport could handle more international flights to countries like Malaysia. The number of customs and immigration desks and counters at Madurai airport should also be increased to that of an international airport as the passengers face delays in clearance due to insufficient immigration and customs officials. I appeal to the Prime Minister and the Minister for Civil Aviation to bestow special attention on this issue.Asmabagh Anvardeen,Ramanathapuram