http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Ready-to-race/article14024679.ece

With 48 hours to race day, and as the clock begins to tick, give those running shoes a break. You read it right: after months of practice, it is now time to give yourself a well-deserved break. Catch up on sleep, eat well and just relax.With the Wipro Chennai Marathon set to take place on Sunday morning, supermodel-turned-runner Milind Soman recommends getting sufficient rest. “Assuming that the runners have trained well and got enough practice in the months leading up to the marathon, the days leading up to the race should be spent giving their bodies rest,” he says, adding, “Ensure that you sleep at the right time and wake up at the same time that you will on race day. This is to help your body fall into a routine, so you aren’t tired on the day of the marathon. It works better if you’ve been doing this for a month.”The most important thing, he says, is ensuring that one sticks to a routine, and the same diet that they’ve been following, even on race day. “Don’t introduce your body to anything new close to the day of the marathon. Anything new you do will stress your body and you want to avoid that. So, just stay calm and remain in a relaxed state of mind. There’s no need to be nervous either,” he says. The 50-year-old, who won the Ironman Challenge last year, firmly believes in “simply enjoying the moment”.Post-race recoveryWhether it is the 10K you choose to run, the half-marathon or the full marathon, it is equally important to give your body a chance to recover. This can be done in two phases — passive recovery and active recovery. “After you’ve run the race, it is important to give yourself a good eight hours of sleep. That is passive recovery. But don’t fall back into a lazy pattern the next day. Run some more instead; it’s the best way to keep the blood circulating and to recover from the race.”Milind normally runs a half-marathon the day after the marathon; but that, he says, is his way of doing it. “You could run a three-kilometre or even a five-kilometre stretch, depending on what you are comfortable with. A slow jog helps too. The thing about running is that you learn more about yourself; don’t just copy others. Listen to your body,” he says.The Wipro Chennai Marathon will be held on January 31, 2016.Full Marathon: 4 a.m. at Kasturba Nagar MRTS, OMRHalf Marathon: 4:30 a.m. at Kasturba Nagar MRTS, OMR10 km: 7 a.m. at Napier’s BridgeRun for Fun: 7 a.m. CPT Ground