http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Readers%E2%80%99-Mail/article13980062.ece

Diversion of trafficThe NH bypass road from Eenchakkal to Thiruvallam is experiencing heavy traffic, as the old Manacad road is closed to traffic owing to sewerage works.But the bypass road is unable to handle the volume of traffic, as it is not wide enough. KSRTC buses, which normally shun the bypass, are now plying on it thereby causing congestion in the narrow bypass.It is therefore suggested that the south-bound buses, starting from East Fort, use the Attakulangara bypass and turn right after Killipalam and use the Attukal approach road, then proceed to Karumom via Maruthoorkadavu bridge and on to Thiruvallam.North-bound buses from Thiruvallam should use the bypass road upto Enchakkal. While on the bypass road, the stops could be made some distance away from junctions to avoid traffic jams. Also while stopping the buses, the drivers could ensure that they are well into the curb to ensure unhindered flow of traffic.M. Sathyasenan,Thiruvallam.Aruvikkara reservoirThe move of the government and the KWA to clean up the reservoir tank at Aruvikkara, though late, is most welcome. But what is planned to be done to ensure that the open reservoir which stores drinking water is protected from miscreants polluting it?N.R.U.K. Kartha,SasthamangalamFatal accidentsIt is indeed painful to note the fatal accidents taking place on our roads. With regard to the accident near the Ulloor bridge the other day, the following points may be noted. The Kesavadasapuram-Ulloor road is of varying width throughout its length. Of this, the Ulloor bridge is the most dangerous spot.Although the bridge was reconstructed about 30 years ago, the authorities did not to care to widen it or provide footpaths (This being a bridge within the city limits). The authorities should take-up the widening and proper designing of the road immediately to avoid accidents in future.Binu Mangal,SreekaryamTraffic congestionSeveral suggestions have been made earlier in these columns for eliminating the traffic congestion in the East Fort area.Many accidents have taken place yet neither the KSRTC nor the police has taken any action. Even after widening the road, one can find three rows of buses parked along the main road at any time, completely blocking the free flow of vehicles.Pedestrians are the worst affected with encroachments on the pavement.There is no zebra crossing nor traffic lights to regulate the traffic at the Gandhi park.The main cause for the traffic congestion is the present system of making all the city buses originate and terminate at East Fort. Like all other major cities, KSRTC should run point-to-point bus services without touching East Fort (eg Peroorkada to Medical College, Kovalam to Sasthamangalam) with route numbers displayed at the front and rear ends of the buses and at all the bus stops.This system will not only cover all the areas of the city but improve the efficiency of the KSRTC. This will also benefit commuters who cannot read the Malayalam name boards.Another cause for the congestion is the lack of a full fledged bus terminal at East Fort. The present bus depot adjoining the Putharikandan Maidanam can easily be converted into a bus terminal.The system of parking buses along the main road should be discontinued forthwith clearing the way for free flow of vehicles.The pavements must be cleared for use by the pedestrians and a zebra crossing (with traffic lights) or a subway must be installed at the Gandhi Park.R. Swaminathan,Sreevaraham