http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/READERS-MAIL/article13986265.ece

Road ridden with potholes In spite of repeated complaints, the road from Telugu Talli statue on Alwal main road (Rajiv Rahadari) to Old Alwal Crossroads is still in shambles – ridden with potholes, water logging pits, washed away and uncarpeted and uneven stretches, all giving a hard time for commuters. I request the concerned authorities to take up repair works and make the road motorable.M.V.H. RaoAlwalVehicular pollution rising Vehicular pollution in twin cities, if not dealt with iron hand, will reach alarming levels. As such, the traffic police are tied up with other issues and cannot handle pollution all by themselves. The Central Transport Act on vehicle pollution says that every six months, vehicle owners should get the PUC (Pollution under control) certificate.I am sure that none of the vehicle owners, other than two-wheelers and car owners, are getting this done, mainly the vehicles belonging to the GHMC, RTC, Police Department and the auto-rickshaws.One can see the vans issuing pollution certificate all along the twin cities, but not much takers for this service. Hence, in the interest of general public, I request the concerned authorities to take steps to control pollution, else Hyderabad will go the Delhi way in the days to come.Kumar M. ShahstriMoula AliNo drinking water supply I am a resident of Vamsiram’s Jyoti Magnum, located on Srinagar Colony Road which comes under Yellareddiguda Water works.I am not getting drinking water supply for the last one year while the other residents are. I have already given a letter to Yellareddiguda water works and I also met the higher officials of the Hyderabad water board.I have given a complaint letter and the officials said that they we will send a person to look into the matter, but so far, nobody has turned up. My grievance no. is 5471 dated December 19. The other day, I received an SMS stating that the problem has been solved when it was not.We have been purchasing water regularly on alternate days, which is not affordable to a common man.I request the concerned authorities to look into the matter immediately and change the connection on top priority basis and solve the issue.V. VishwanathSrinagar Colony