http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/Recalling-the-GNB-bani/article13999512.ece

Vidwan Trichur V. Ramachandran’s lec-dem dealing with the ‘Influence of Varnam and Kriti on Raga Alapana’ approached the subject from diverse angles, all of which converged at a focal point - namely, his absolute faith in the awesome musicianship of one of the greatest maestros of all time – his guru, G.N. Balasubramaniam. And during his talk the vidwan chose to remind rasikas about his guru’s distinctive approach, as 2015 marked the year of the 50th anniversary of GNB’s demise.Ramachandran explained that raga is considered the most important aspect of classical music. Karnataka Sangeetam may be termed as raga music in both kalpita and kalpana avenues. Originating from the Sama Veda, this discipline has been enriched by the compositions of the musical Trinity – Thyagaraja, Muthuswami Dikshitar and Syama Sastri. Their works distil raga essence and define raga lakshana.Compositions of other eminent vaggeyakaras such as Patnam Subramania Iyer and Poochi Srinivasa Iyengar are also wonderful repositories of raga bhava.In kritis such as ‘Swara Raga Sudha’ and ‘Raga Sudha Rasa’ Tyagaraja has described the beauty and significance of raga. Legends such as Shankarabharanam Narasaiya and Todi Sitaramaiah have had their area of expertise defined by the raga prefix to their names. Subsequently, Tiger Varadachari and later, GNB and nagaswara vidwan T.N. Rajarathnam Pillai set a benchmark through their raga expositions.All musical forms are inter-related and derived from ragas. The sarali and other varisais, gitam, varnam, kriti, padam and other compositional forms all contribute to an understanding of raga. Regular practice aids akara singing.The more kritis one learns and internalises in a particular raga, the better one understands its many facets and subtleties that enrich alapana. In Thodi, Thyagaraja’s ‘Endu Daaginaado’ and ‘Aaragimpave’ illustrate different approaches. A study of the nokku sangatis in ‘Ninne Namminanu’ (Syama Sastri) and the structuring of ‘Dasarathi’ (Thyagaraja) help in incorporating these concepts into raga development. Taking Ritigowla, ‘Cheraravademi,’ ‘Paripalayamam’ and ‘Janani Ninnuvina’ are kritis that paint a comprehensive picture, as does ‘Marivere’ in Anandabhairavi. In Kalyani raga, ‘Bhajare Re,’ ‘Kamalambam Bhajare’ and ‘Talli Ninnu’ highlight ‘bigu-sugu’, vadi-samvadi and jaru aspects.In Khambodi, the sangatis of ‘Marimari Ninne’ birth swarupa-defining raga pidis. When one cultivates the listening habit, one absorbs by osmosis. But one should also listen with perception, knowing ‘the how and why of things’ and this awareness is something only the guru can impart. On one occasion, GNB became emotional while narrating how Tiger would handle ‘Emi Jesithe’ (Thyagaraja). He stood by the conviction that meaningful innovation should be made within the framework of tradition. When he dwelt on the madhyama during a Kanada alapana, he explained that his point of reference had been a similar sangathi in kriti. Again, when he dwelt upon a plaintive ‘ni’ during a Kalyani alapana, he cited as precedent, its use in the charanam (Nilupa) of the Kalyani varnam. GNB emphasised the need for correct proportion in gamakas, leaving plain notes untouched by oscillations, when the raga so demanded. For instance, Papanasam Sivan, a disciple and staunch admirer ofKonerirajapuram Vaidyanatha Iyer, made a departure from the customary gamaka-laden ‘ga’ in Thodi and used the note unadorned and plain in the charanam ‘Thulli Vilayadi Varum’ of his kriti ‘Thanigai Valar’ based on his vast kelvi gnanam.As readily acknowledged by Semmangudi Srinivasa Iyer, the infinite inspiration flowing from the nagaswaram bani has contributed to a wealth of manodharma of many a great artist, including himself. Likewise, artists GNB and TNR shared a great mutual admiration and regard.