http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Recent-milk-price-hike-hasn%E2%80%99t-helped-us-say-dairy-farmers/article13998567.ece

Have farmers and milk producers gained from the recent hike of Nandini milk price? Their answer is a resounding ‘no’, as there has been a sudden rise in the expenditure on cattle feeds, the prices of which increased immediately after the hike in milk prices.The milk price was hiked by Rs. 4 a litre and the State government maintained that a portion of enhanced sum will be passed on to the producers.Accordingly, the Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF) increased the procurement price to Rs. 22 from Rs. 20 a litre, giving an incentive of Rs. 2 a litre. With an incentive of Rs. 4 from the government, a milk producer gets Rs. 26 a litre.However, the producers claim they haven’t benefited much from the hike as their spending on cattle feed supplied by the KMF has concurrently gone up.“What we have gained is going towards the purchase of feeds,” said farmer leader Attahalli Devaraj.Mr. Devaraj, who is the general secretary of State Sugarcane Growers’ Association, and also a milk producer at Attahalli, told The Hindu that a 50-kg bag of cattle feed was earlier available for Rs. 800-Rs. 850 and its price had been hiked by Rs. 150-Rs. 180 per bag.Likewise, the 35-kg bag of wheat mill run was earlier priced at Rs. 650 and its price had now been increased by Rs. 100 per bag, he said.Mr. Devaraj said the government should have taken steps to prevent the hike in the price of cattle feeds to ensure that the farmers benefited from the milk price hike. “It is like giving from one hand and taking from another hand.”Meanwhile, Mysuru Milk Producers’ Union Managing Director Channakrishnaiah defended the hike of cattle feeds by the KMF following rise in the cost of its raw materials.“Like milk price, it had become inevitable to revise the prices of cattle feeds. Perhaps, the farmers are not feeling the benefit of the milk price hike due to increase in cattle feeds’ price. But, this is a temporary phenomenon,” he replied.Mr. Channakrishnaiah said the KMF had been running the cattle feeds unit at “no profit, no loss” and it could not extend subsidy for the feeds as almost all the milk unions in the State had been under revenue loss.In the case of Mysuru union, over seven lakh litres of milk is procured from farmers daily and only three lakh litres of liquid milk, including about 50,000 litres of curds, was sold.But, the benefits had been extended to the entire production, he explained.“As we don’t get any grant from the government, it was unavoidable for us to take decisions hiking the prices of milk and cattle feeds,” the MD said.Whoever benefits or not, the burden on the common people has gone up with the steep hike in milk price from Rs. 29 a litre to Rs. 33 a litre.