http://www.thehindu.com/features/homes-and-gardens/Reducing-carbon-footprint/article14026739.ece

Since the greatest opportunity to reduce primary energy use lies within existing building stock, retrofitting of old buildings is one such solution to answer the energy efficiency queries. It is a proven high-volume, low-cost strategy to improve energy efficiency, thereby helping us tackle one of the major causes of climate change.India’s burgeoning construction industry is also one of the highest contributors to the country’s CO2 emissions, accounting for 22 per cent of India’s total annual CO2 emissions. This impact is expected to increase with the efforts to combat the housing shortage affecting more than 60 million households in the country, adding to the enormous resource and energy footprint of the sector, according to K.N. Rao, Director- Energy & Environment, ACC Limited.“The new buildings constructed will definitely increase India’s CO2 footprint considerably. Therefore it is required to convert the existing buildings into reasonably energy-efficient green buildings,” he says.A few years ago, ACC Limited retrofitted its 75-year-old iconic headquarters, Cement House, in Mumbai and the 45-year-old residential quarters on its training campus into LEED-certified green buildings. It continues its efforts at the regional level by retrofitting the control cabins at its plants.The solution to this problem was in the form of bringing out ACC EcoBricks, building blocks of sustainable construction. They are eco-friendly, technically superior, fly-ash based bricks manufactured by state-of-the-art technology,” says Mr. Rao.Talking to PropertyPlus in an interview, Mr. Rao said EcoBricks are superior to other bricks in terms of strength, water absorption, and efflorescence parameters.Excerpts of the interview…What are EcoBricks, how do you describe it for a common man?ACC has developed new fly-ash based bricks within a sustainable foundation called EcoBricks that are technically superior in terms of strength, water absorption and efflorescence parameters. They are energy- and resource-efficient, produced using cleaner production techniques and therefore reduce carbon footprints while reducing the stress on virgin resources through use of industry by-products.Erosion of top soil today is of great concern for governments. Clay bricks are depleting this top soil necessary for agriculture. EcoBrick is a solution to this problem as it does not require any top soil excavation. The compressive strength of EcoBrick is more than 15 Mpa as compared to 6-7 Mpa strength for conventional clay brick , whereas the water absorption is less than 14 per cent compared to minimum 20 per cent in case of normal clay bricks. It is free from termite attack and requires lesser mortar for masonry work. This way it could be economical too.How are you going to tackle old buildings then?It is surprising that only 2% of the total number of buildings in the country are certified green buildings, while the remaining continue to report consumption of maximum amount of energy. As compared to a conventional building, to function in a sustainable manner, a building must: use less water; optimise energy efficiency; conserve natural resources; generate less waste; and provide healthier living spaces.So, old buildings too can be made energy efficient. Retrofitting refers to modifying a structure, which means making changes to the systems inside the building or even the structure itself at some point after its initial construction and occupation. It is a proven high-volume, low-cost strategy to improve energy efficiency which directly contributes to tackling climate change. Typically this is done with the expectation of improving amenities for the building’s occupants and/or improving the performance of the building.