http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/letters/Reforms-in-cricket/article13982933.ece

The Supreme Court-appointed Justice R.M. Lodha Committee has given a blueprint for reforming the BCCI (“Legalise betting in cricket”, Jan. 5). Over the years, the cash-rich BCCI has turned into a cesspool of corruption, and politicians and business barons have been running the show for years on end. However, the proof of the pudding is in the eating and it remains to be seen how the present administrators will react to the recommendations. Will they accept all of them or only some? The committee’s recommendation that the BCCI should be brought within the ambit of the Right to Information Act is fully justified, as it is time for the organisation to make its dealings transparent. The suggestion that there needs to be a retirement age for administrators counters the interests of the big shots who control the game. Cleaning the Augean stables is imperative.C.V. Aravind,ChennaiMost of the recommendations of the Lodha Committee are welcome. But legalising betting is totally out of tune. It is certainly fraught with problems; it will open the floodgates for match-fixing. The big money and stakes involved will unleash a Frankenstein, which will be capable of luring the players, managers, and organisers to indulge in unfair practices. Legalising betting would be nothing short of a betrayal to the lovers of the game. It is hoped that the apex court will reconsider this part before laying down the rules.S.V. Venkatakrishnan,BengaluruWhile legalising betting calls for a consensus, the Lodha Committee’s pitch for barring government servants, ministers and politicians from holding positions in the BCCI is welcome. The interests of Indian cricket will be well-served if former players are brought on board not only at the national level, but also at the regional and local levels. Since the financial irregularities saw the ouster of the likes of Lalit Modi and Jagmohan Dalmiya, and the match-fixing scam brought disrepute to the game, the world’s wealthiest cricketing body ought to put in place the panel’s recommendations to restore the glory of this gentleman’s sport.R. Prabhu Raj,Bengaluru