http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/society/Regal-in-name-and-style/article14014028.ece

No wonder it’s called Regal House. There’s definitely something stately about the well-kept mansion on busy S.S. Kovil Road, Thampanoor, with its elegant teak doors and windows, massive verandas, spacious, airy rooms with impossibly high-ceilings, antique furniture and the likes, not to mention the three majestic mango trees that protect its sides.The two-storey house, we learn from its owners, the genial Mohan Kumar, an engineer, and his equally charming wife, Reena, is over 60 years old. It was passed down to them from Mohan’s father, Pappu Velayudhan, a financer, hotelier and tile factory owner, who hailed from Kollam. “My father moved to Thiruvananthapauram some 75 years ago, a short while after he resigned from his post as foreman of the then famous tile factory, Thomas Stephen and Co. Subsequently, he ventured into the hotel business with Regal Café in Palayam and set up Regal Tile Works at Ithikkara, Kollam. Eventually, he bought four acres of land from eminent advocate ‘Sadasyathilakam’ T.K. Velu Pillai [who compiled the Travancore State Manual] to build a house. Our entire property once stretched from S.S. Kovil Road all the way to Manorama Road,” says Mohan, one of seven children of Velayudhan and his wife, Lekshmi.Today, Regal House is situated on 26 cents of land (originally 30; four cents were handed over for road widening). Given that Thampanoor is a low-lying area, prone to water-logging, Mohan says that his father was determined that the house has a rock solid foundation.“As such, the foundation, built of granite, was left to settle for about a year. Thanks to it, we’ve never had a crack on the walls,” he explains, pointing to the foundation that juts a metre or so above ground.“It then took only six months to build the house. The lower floor was built with wire cut bricks made in our factory’s kiln and the upper floor was made of country (hand-made) bricks,” adds Mohan.The couple have kept the 7,000 sq ft house largely intact, save for modifications to the kitchen and bathrooms. The entrance, which is to the side of the house, opens into a cosy, well-lit living area and from that into an elongated veranda. It’s when you come upon the veranda that you get to see the beauty of the mosaic flooring that covers the entire house. Remarkably, it still sparkles like new, not a chip loose, despite what must have been hundreds of feet traipsing over it over the decades. “The mosaic with its signature black border was laid by Garlic & Co. – the same company that did the flooring for the Medical College. In fact, it was after seeing it there that my father decided to do the same for our house,” recalls Mohan, adding rather poignantly: “Once the house was bustling with people – my parents and my brothers and their families. Now it’s just two of us, especially after our three daughters, Archana, Lekshmi and Parvathy, moved to the United States, after marriage.”The veranda leads to the main living room, a couple of bedrooms and the dining room-cum-kitchen area. It also opens out to the pretty little garden blooming with flowers. Inside, the bedroom on the left was the family patriarch’s room and it still contains a wooden cupboard and a bureau with mirror that are at least 150 years old, both of which belonged to Velayudhan’s father, Pappu. The bedroom on the other side, formerly an office room, is now used as the lounge/television room. To the side of the wide staircase with its polished rail is a huge nilavilakku. “In the days past the lamp was lit throughout the day. My father used to light the lamp at 4 a.m. every day. The lamp is positioned in such a way that it could be viewed by passersby on the road, through a panel in the side gate (now enclosed, save for three holes in the wall, “for old times’ sake”). Many people used to stop and pray, actor Manianpillai Raju being one of them, which he always reminds me whenever I see him,” says Mohan.The upstairs is more or less the same plan – huge veranda with an office room and the family’s living quarters. “In all the house has seven bedrooms, two main verandas, plus another enclosed one off the dining room, two office rooms and an expansive work area. It also has a garage, tile factory office and store room in a small building to one side. The house was completely my father-in-law’s own design,” says Reena. “It may be huge but I’ve always thought that it was designed with convenience in mind and as such it is easy to upkeep,” she adds.(A column on houses in and around the city that are more than 50 years old.)