http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/Released-prisoners-head-home/article14021633.ece

Tuesday evening was no ordinary day for the inmates of Bengaluru Central prison in Bengaluru.A total of 98 prisoners — 93 men and five women — walked out as free people.They had been released on Republic Day for good conduct.At 6.03 p.m., the left wing of the large prison door was opened. The first two men to walk out had spent nearly 16 years behind bars. Outside, on the other side of the prison compound wall — almost 400 metres away — their family members were waiting.Such scenes were being played out across Karnataka as 375 convicts serving life terms, including 13 women, were released.At Bengaluru Central prison, the first to receive her release papers was Mamata Chandrasekar.“Prison has changed me. I have served 14 long years and now I am waiting to be reunited with my family,” she said.The release ceremony was attended by Home Minister G. Parameshwara, DGP (Prisons) H.N. Sathyanarayana Rao and senior State Home Department officials.The Minister lauded the work of the Home Department that facilitated the release of the prisoners by reducing the processing period for such applications.While many relatives waiting outside were overjoyed, a few were left disappointed. A group from Arsikere in Hassan district, who had anticipated the release of two of their relatives, couldn’t hide their dismay after realising that they were not on the list.Waiting for his sonDaily wager Siddaiah from Chikkamagalur saw his 14-year-old son Gopal walk into a juvenile prison in 2002 after being convicted for murder. The frail man was seated on the roadside opposite the Bengaluru Central Prison complex with tears of joy as he waited for his son to walk free. “He is 28 now. I have come to take him home,” a teary-eyed Siddaiah said.None to receive himStanding outside the prison gate with his only belonging, a heavy duffle bag, Subramanya Nagappa couldn’t believe that he was finally free after 16 years.“I was wrongly convicted of killing my wife, who committed suicide,” he said. He was the first man to be released. He left for a village near Sagara in Shivamogga district with the hope that his children would welcome him with open arms.A second chanceFifteen years and six months ago, Ravi Kumar was sentenced to life imprisonment after being implicated in the murder of a man during a violent clash in Maddur, Mandya district.He was a youth at the time. On Tuesday, Kumar, now 39, was the second man to walk out of the prison.