http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Remembering-the-dear-departed/article13986302.ece

The passing away of our near and dear ones creates a void in life. Their memories and the feeling of missing them need not be confined to birth and death anniversaries as it can hit one anytime. Over the years newspapers have been the only way to share the loss with the world. Now it is possible to recall our association with the departed souls with a simple click –– by logging on the website tributes.in launched by Pan India Network P. Ltd., on which memories and stories of the loved ones can be shared with family members and friends. Emotionally fulfilling, it is when one shares the experience of learning cycling from the father or baking a cake from the mother or simply recalling the stories which grandmother narrated or the jokes the grandfather shared on a profile created on the site for a price.The idea of tributes.in hit Pan India after having successfully creating India Online Network, a website providing minute details of different cities. “We thought why not provide an online obituary service which can be a platform where people can create a tribute page for their loved ones. This is an easier and quicker way to communicate to your family and friends about the demise of loved ones,” explains Rahul Jalan, Director of indiaonline.in. Thus the tributes.in came into being offering a customised tool to pay homage to loved ones.Initially, it was felt that many may find it inappropriate to post personal and sensitive information online but tributes.in got positive response from people. “We participated in the trade fair this year and got around 200 registrations for this service. People loved the idea. Their reaction was phenomenal.” Moreover, this type of service was never been available online before and obituaries in the newspapers were the only option to inform people at large. Rahul informs that their services are not limited to just posting obituaries since they have designed the interactive platform where one can do much more that just pay tributes. “One can create a profile page for the person, along with a lifetime legacy page for families and you can also post messages in memorial.”With family members dispersed all over, the website has emerged as a space for them to reconnect and come closer while coping with their loss. “In this age where families have become smaller and disconnected, people don’t know who there ancestors or forefathers were. This is a place when families can interact and stay connected to their roots,” says Rahul.Homage can be paid on tributes.in by performing virtual activities like lighting lamps, candles, incense sticks and offering garlands to pay respects thus in a way retaining the customs and traditions. The website already has profiles of well-known personalities like Mahatma Gandhi, Sarojini Naidu and even R. D. Burman. Thus those you can’t make to the Raj Ghat to pay respects to the Father of the Nation on his death anniversary this month can do so on this platform.The indiaonline.in is a city-based portal that caters to the needs of the local and tourists alike by providing them information about chemist to restaurant to cinema halls functioning like a travel guide and yellow pages besides allowing buying and selling and renting.Corrections & Clarifications:This article has been edited for a factual error.