http://www.thehindu.com/features/kids/Rendezvous-with-robots/article13986327.ece

Scott Belsky, an American entrepreneur and author, said, “It’s not about ideas. It’s about making ideas happen.” Though one might think of amazing ideas to build a gadget or a robot, putting them to action is a tough task that requires determination. Kickstarter is a global crowdfunding platform where people pitch their ideas to the world and seek their support for helping them complete their project. The ideas range from building giant fighting robots to tiny origami robots that can be programmed by the user. Here are some projects that stood out from the rest.Kamigami — Animal-inspired robots anyone can make (kck.st/1U3U17i)Do you like origami? Combine that with robotics and imagine what would happen. Or, just check out a fun project by Dash Robotics — they have designed origami-style robots you can build. The kit contains laser-cut body components, a motor, transmission, rechargeable battery, micro-USB and plug-and-play electronics. It will take you less than an hour to assemble the robot without any tools. Once that is done, you can download the app, programme the robot and use your device as a remote control. The robots come in three designs — Musubi, Inari, and Goki.Robo Wunderkind (kck.st/1NBRrUx)This is a robotics kit that can teach you how algorithms and code work, and help you build your own robot without breaking into a sweat. It consists of a set of lego-like blocks which you can use for building robots such as a remote control car or even an aeroplane. The blocks can be programmed using your smartphone or tablet. Each block can perform a different function such as proximity sensors, humidity sensors, motors and so on. The programming language is easy to understand and instead of writing codes, you can simply drag and drop blocks.Thimble: Learn & Build Electronics (kck.st/1m6vKTQ)If you like tinkering and making robots, you might want to take a close look at this Kickstarter project. Started with the aim of helping one understand the fundamentals of electronics, it consists of a series of monthly-delivered kits. Each kit contains a different project, the first one being a WiFi robot. For assembling a kit, all you need to do is to follow simple, structured videos and code lessons. If you need support, you can follow the community forum, chats and weekly project webinars. You can also earn cool badges as you build your skills in soldering, programming languages, micro-controllers and theory.