http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/letters/Republic-of-discrimination/article14010191.ece

The difference between an upper-caste Hindu and a Dalit may not be as stark now as it was in earlier times. However, any discrimination cannot be justified (“Ancient prejudice, modern inequality”, Jan.20). There are still many villages where Dalits are forced to live in isolation. There are still many tea stalls where a dirty cup is kept outside for them. There are villages where they are not let into temples. These practices are inhumane and represent the moral degradation of a prejudiced section of people.Rohith Vemula has a left a very touching message for all of us, “My birth is my fatal accident”. Should the fate of a person be determined on the basis of his birth? Is there no importance to be given to his capability? How many more deaths will it take to make people’s thinking more inclusive?Manjunath Madiwalar,New DelhiThe legend of Ekalavya was created to strengthen the supremacy of caste hierarchy and that of Satyakama to show that honesty is intrinsically related to caste supremacy. Both the legends were shrewd works of ‘art’ intended to keep the most unjust system in the world — the caste system — intact. Ekalavya meekly dismembered his thumb, the very source of his skill, placed it at the altar of caste oppression and became the greatest symbol of gurubhakti (devotion to one’s teacher). The legend is a classic example of using gurubhakti to perpetrate an unequal social system. In the case of Satyakama, being ‘Brahmin’ was equated with honesty. Individuals in our country are still judged not by their talents or qualities, but by their caste, their birth, as brought out again by the suicide of Rohith. The suicide can also be seen as a forced retreat of willpower in front of an impregnable caste bias.Sukumaran C.V.,PalakkadThe tragic suicide of Rohith and the role of Union Minister Bandaru Dattatreya and Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) activists in abetting this act are a glaring example of the Narendra Modi-led BJP government’s anti-Dalit agenda (“Death of a Dalit scholar,” Jan.20). According to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report 2015, there has been a 20 per cent increase in violence against Dalits under the present government. In Hyderabad, five Dalit students were expelled from their hostels and denied stipends on the basis of mere allegations that they had beaten up an ABVP leader. The University V-C did not even bother to cross-check allegations of the ABVP leader before suspending the students.Sherful Islam,MumbaiHyderabad Central University (HCU) is one of the best universities in India. I am closely associated with it and it is very alarming to see how all the political parties are sensationalising the issue and blaming the university. I respect the formation of student unions within colleges but questions arise when there is violence involved.Further, there have been so many suicides in the previous years. We should rather come up with a club that helps people suffering from depression and helps them overcome the trauma arising out of various factors, including caste discrimination.Sahitya Billuri,HyderabadIn my opinion, the case of Rohith is simply being used by politicians and others who have no interest whatsoever in him and what his family is going through. While I strongly oppose the caste discrimination prevalent in our society, I also strongly oppose the thinking of people like the writer of the article “He has left us with only his words,” (Jan.19). To fight against an evil such as this, there is no use merely fighting against the people who are following it. “An eye for an eye” approach is a self-destructive idea for our nation.The reservation system in its present form is not helping the Dalits as intended by the thoughtful Dr. B.R. Ambedkar. It is only being used by political parties to grab votes in the elections. It is necessary to make sure that all Dalits equally benefit from reservation, not just the creamy layer. Affirmative action should be aimed at rooting out the evil of caste from people’s minds rather than playing vote-bank politics.Arpit Srivastava,Bengaluru