http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Report-on-impact-of-Special-Development-Plan-awaited/article13987426.ece

Venkatarao Ghorpade, Chairman, High Power Committee on Redressing Regional Imbalance, has said that he was awaiting a report of a study on the impact of spending around Rs. 15,000 crore in eight years as part of implementing the Special Development Plan.Addressing a press conference in his home district on Tuesday after assuming charge, Mr. Ghorpade said that the State government, as recommended by the erstwhile High Power Committee on Redressing Regional Imbalance, had decided to spend around Rs. 16,000 crore, over and above the budgetary allocation, for the purpose.Accordingly, Rs. 15,600 crore were released by the State government from 2007-08 to 2014-15 under the Special Development Plan, of which Rs. 15,000 crore had been spent through 22 departments to redress backwardness.“To know the impact of the huge spending, the work of doing an analysis has been entrusted to the Centre for Multi-Disciplinary Development and Research (CMDR), Dharwad, and the work is under way.“The report is expected to be submitted shortly. On receiving the report, we will come to know what has been the impact and to what extent backwardness had been redressed.“Meanwhile, I am getting an internal impact assessment study conducted over how the Special Development Plan had improved human development in the backward regions.“After studying the two reports, we can make suggestions to the government on bringing in reforms/improvements to the implementation of the Special Development Plan in a better way to ensure that the purpose of spending yielded the desired results,” he said.Mr. Ghorpade said that Chief Minister Siddaramaiah had promised that the implementation of Special Development Plan would be extended for five more years by allocating Rs. 3,000 per year, beginning from 2016-17. For this year (2015-16), Mr. Siddaramaiah has earmarked Rs. 2,300 crore, he said.Mr. Ghorpade said that 48 backward taluks, including 12 in the Hyderabad Karnataka region, were part of the project under which 60 solar parks had been proposed to be set up.Tenders have been invited by Karnataka Renewable Energy Development Limited (KREDL). He said that the committee was keen on taking up the projects, each with a capacity to generate up to 20 megawatts, under private-public partnership. The committee will try to get suitable land if investors showed any interest. Based on its success, it would be replicated in other backward taluks,” he added.Deputy Commissioner Sameer Shukla was present.A sum of Rs. 15,000 crore has been spend in eight years as part of implementingthe plan