http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/Report-points-to-poor-quality-drugs/article13999262.ece

The probe into a series of maternal deaths at Vani Vilas and Cheluvamba hospitals in November, while failing to fix responsibility on anyone, has revealed that “inadequate facilities” in obstetrics ICU and labour rooms were among the “probable causes”.The report also admitted that drugs used on the patients were “not of standard quality”, but claimed it was “unlikely to be the lethal dose”. The report, submitted to the Minister of State for Medical Education Sharan Prakash Patil and Principal Secretary M. Lakshminarayana on Wednesday, points to problems galore in the ICU and labour rooms — it says that they lack functioning ventilators, monitors, infusion pumps, defibrillators, and trained manpower (nurses and resident doctors).While not holding any doctor responsible for the higher mortality rate in a span of 12 days (10 women, who delivered babies through lower segmental caesarean section, had died at the two hospitals in 12 days), the external committee that investigated the deaths has said that almost all cases had severe co-morbid conditions and were referred late. These tertiary care facilities had a huge load of referrals during that period because of the holiday season.The Hindu published exclusive reports on the maternal deaths at Vani Vilas and Cheluvamba hospitals on November 24 and November 26, respectively. Following this, Mr. Patil had set up an external committee comprising doctors from medical colleges across the State to probe the deaths.The report, a copy of which is with The Hindu , has attributed eight of the 10 deaths in Vani Vilas Hospital to pregnancy-induced hypertension and HELLP syndrome (a life-threatening pregnancy complication). Both conditions usually result in bleeding due to Postpartum Haemorrhage (PPH) and Disseminated Intravascular Coagulation (DIC). The remaining deaths have occurred due to severe co-morbid conditions associated with pregnancy such as pulmonary embolism and aspiration. One patient developed septicaemia.While the medical cause of most deaths remain the same in Cheluvamba Hospital too, the report stated that five patients in the hospital died due to multi-organ failure following preeclampsia and one patient (referred from Kollegal) died of sepsis.Although the drug samples seized from both the hospitals have been found to be “not of standard quality” by the State Drugs Control Department, the drugs used on the patients are unlikely to be the lethal dose, the report stated.Mr. Patil said he would soon convene a meeting and set right the problems pointed out by the probe. “These hospitals have been functioning without certain facilities for ages. We will discuss on what needs to be done and initiate measures on priority,” the Minister said.These hospitals have been functioning without certain facilities for ages. We will soon hold a meeting and discuss what needs to be done and initiate measures on prioritySharan Prakash Patil,Minister of State for Medical Education