http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/Republic-Day-held-with-patriotic-fervour-across-State/article14022177.ece

The 67th Republic Day was celebrated with patriotic fervour in the district at public and private institutions here on Tuesday.The main function was held at the police parade grounds in Hanamkonda where the district Collector Vakati Karuna reviewed the official parade as chief guest. She gave away appreciation certificates to hundreds of individuals in recognition of their services.Addressing the gathering, the collector listed out the development activities underway in the district. She said the administration spent Rs 38 crore for land purchase and distributed the same among 232 SC beneficiaries. A total of 36,643 SC students were given scholarships to the tune of Rs 36.86 crore and Rs 36 lakh incentive to inter-caste marriages.Ms. Karuna said under the Mission Kakatiya the government spent Rs. 248 crore in Warangal district reviving 1,063 tanks of which works on 423 were already completed. “The district stands first under Telangana Harithaharam planting 2.25 crore saplings and we are rising four crore saplings in nurseries for the next phase of the programme,” she said.Over 600 students representing various schools took part in the celebrations presenting colourful cultural programmes on the eve. The government departments have exhibited tableaux featuring their development. The collector later inaugurated a photo exhibition at the town hall in Pubic Gardens featuring various development activities underway.DIG B Malla Reddy, Rural SP AK Kha, City police commissioner G Sudheer Babu and several other officials were present.Lions Club’s gestureIt was a really a dream come true to the students of Government High School, Sapthagiri Colony on the occasion of Republic Day celebrations on Tuesday.The government school students, who participated in various sports and educational activities, but were not given prizes due to financial constraints, were thrilled and excited to receive the prizes and sweets donated by Good Samaritans of Karimnagar town.The Lions Club of Karimnagar, which won accolades for several social service activities and for opening a charitable eye hospital in the town, came forward to sponsor the prizes for all the students who had participated in various sports, games activities and also literary programmes organised as part of the Republic Day celebrations.Lions Club senior leader of the town Prakash Holla took initiatives for the purchase of gifts to all the 270 and odd students of the school and distributed the same on Tuesday along with other Lions club leaders such Konda Venu Murthy, S Narender, Peddi Vidyasagar, Mahesh and others. Similarly, another philanthropist from Anand Sweet House had donated sweets to all the 400 odd students.Speaking on the occasion, Prakash Holla emphasised the importance of education and service to mankind as a responsible citizen. Quoting examples of Ambedkar, Mahatma Gandhi, Swami Vivekananda and APJ Abdul Kalaam, he called upon the students to set a goal and strive to achieve it. Meanwhile, students of Jyotismathi Institute of Technology and Sciences (JITS), who have formed into a ‘Jyothismathi Brigade’ and are participating in social service programmes, celebrated the Republic Day with the inmates of an orphanage on Tuesday.The Jyothismathi Brigade volunteers contributed their pocket money for the purchase of bedsheets, blankets, dress material, chappals, cosmetics, mats, rice bags etc and distributed the same to the inmates of Shalom orphanage in Christian Colony in Karimnagar town.On this occasion, the students and faculty members had participated in community lunch along with the inmates of the orphanage and shared pleasantries. The students motivated the inmates to study hard and assured of all assistance.JITS principal V Rajendra Prasad, Administrative officer Prabhakar, HoD (computer science) Haribabu and others participated in the programme. Shalom organisers Rev T.B.S. Sudhakar and Manjula appreciated the gesture of students and college management.Thermal power plantDistrict Collector, P.Satyanarayana Reddy said that the construction of Yadadri thermal power plant at Damarcherla will put a permanent end to the shortage of electricity production in Telangana.Addressing the gathering at Parade Grounds after hoisting the national flag on Republic Day, Mr.Reddy said they have acquired 5,530 acres of land for the project in Damarcherla mandal. Talking about the development of Yadagirigutta, the Collector said they have also acquired 1,763 acres of land to develop the Sri Lakshminarasimha Swamy Temple on par with Tirumala. Stating that Telangana people would get AIIMS facility at Bibinagar soon, he said that the Chief Minister, K.Chandrasekhar Rao promised to develop the area in to a health hub in the State. He also detailed about various welfare schemes that were initiated by Telanagana government during the past one year. Superintendent of Police, Vikram Jeet Duggal, Joint Collector, N.Satyanarayana and others were present.The First Additional Junior First Class Magistrate Saritha hoisted the national flag at the District Probation Office and Juvenile Observation Home and participated in the Republic Day celebrations along with the inmates.On the occasion, she called upon all the people to work with dedication and honesty to ensure that the fruits of development reached the people at the bottom level of the social pyramid. She said the sacrifices made by national heroes during freedom struggle could never be forgotten.District Observation Officer B. Neelakanthadhar, V. Narsimha, M. Kistaiah, CWC, JJB and ICDS staff were also present.