http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Repackaging-ancient-wisdom/article14019591.ece

A full house and cheering crowds greeted author Ashwin Sanghi and Bollywood actor Kajol at a session at the Jaipur Literature Festival. On the sidelines of the JLF, Ashwin talked to MetroPlus about his latest project and his foray into writing. He says, “ The Sialkot Saga is going to be out soon. It’s much like Chanakya’s Chant, one of my earlier books that dealt with political strategy. This book is based in the world of corporates and business. I have brought in a few elements of ancient India into the book as well.”He adds, “I was born in a business family and was always interested in business. I could relate to many of the characters and their motivations. In the segment about ancient India, I could play around with the storyline and tweak historical characters. However, since much of the book deals with contemporary India, I was a little cautious. Though the book is focussed on fictional characters, contemporary politicians and industry leaders are present in the backdrop.”Ashwin says that he likes to steer clear from controversy and points out, “As long as your research is good and you treat your source material with dispassionate respect, you do not have to worry about anything. I feel that people should not write just to create some outrage.”The rising popularity of mythology in books, TV series and other elements of popular culture does not surprise Ashwin. He says, “My parents were the first generation to grow up in post colonial India and faced some sort of a colonial hangover. As younger generations discover hitherto hidden aspects of our culture and traditions, they are lapping it up. I think that it is very important to package ancient wisdom well. Good packaging of ancient secrets has helped in spreading awareness.”In the longstanding myth v/s history debate, Ashwin advocates a centrist approach. “I think extremist views from both sides may result in us throwing the baby out with the bath water. Some of the things such as cataract surgeries did happen in Ancient India. However, that loses credibility when you talk about flying machines, nuclear wars etc, playing out in the Ramayana and the Mahabharata.”How did a businessman become a writer? Ashwin says, “I was born in a business family and could draw balance sheets in my early teens. The writing bug bit me on a trip to Srinagar where I chanced upon the Rozabel monument and learnt about the legends attached to it. I started to research about it and in a couple of years had enough material to write a book.”He adds, “It started off as a non fiction account, but then felt that a fictionalised account makes more sense. Once my first book came out, there has been no looking back. I find this talk of commercial writers and literary writers pointless. I feel they are both different streams and have their own space and can coexist.”The author is at JLF on the invitation of Teamwork Arts