http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Thiruvananthapuram/Requiem-for-a-songbird%E2%80%99s-silence/article14013845.ece

hile talking to The Hindu about his experiences at the State School Arts Festival, actor and singer Krishnachandran, who had won the first prize in Classical music at the 1975 school festival, spoke about a remarkably gifted singer named V. Durgalakshmi from Palakkad. “She was a great promise and it is unfortunate that she could not make it big as a professional,” he said.Three days earlier, in another report in The Hindu , playback singer Arundhathi said she had no regrets about coming only second in Classical music at the 1974 festival. “V. Durgalakshmi, from Palakkad, was a most deserving winner,” she said.While musical notes helped Krishnachandran and Arundhathi build their careers, Durgalakshmi was busy counting currency notes; she had become a bank clerk. She was overjoyed though when she read The Hindu interviews that spoke glowingly of her.She wanted to thank Krishnachandran and Arundhathi for their kind words. She was very reluctant to call them up though; they were big celebrities and would not want to speak to her, she thought.But when The Hindu spoke about Durgalakshmi’s wish to Krishnachandran, he said he too would like to speak to her. “She was such a brilliant singer, my parents were her fans,” he recalled. “She sang like a professional even she was so young.”The other night, Durgalakshmi, who works with the Indian Overseas Bank in Chennai, called him up. Soon after she called up The Hindu .“I do not know how to thank you,” she said, trying hard to control her emotions. “It made me feel so good about myself; both Krishnachandran and me had learned from the same gurus, M.A. Venugopal and Janaki Venugopal.” She said she sometimes regretted that she could not make music her profession. “I got a secure job and then married,” she said. “I moved to Neyveli; had I stayed back in Kerala, maybe I could have become a singer.”That she could not is not just her loss, but that of music as well.The Hindu helps a forgotten talent reconnect with her peers after four decadesThe Hindu helps a forgotten talent reconnect with her peers after four decades