http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/fitness/Resolutions-with-a-twist/article13978854.ece

This is the time of the year when almost everyone wants to get in better shape. And that’s absolutely fine. There is energy around this time of the year and using that energy to give your year a jump-start is simply smart. But even with this energy, most people fail to reach their health and fitness-based resolutions year after year. Why? Because most people focus on the wrong things. Let me explain. Let’s say your resolution for the year is to become financially more successful. Your focus should not be on just checking your bank account multiple times a day because that number isn’t going to magically go up. Your focus needs to be the actions that will influence that number — be diligent at work, go the extra mile, be punctual, seize opportunities, work harder, pay attention to detail etc.If you do these things well, the number in your bank account will automatically go up, even if you don’t check it multiple times a day. Fitness and fat loss are similar. Your goal is to lose X kilos. Sure. But just weighing yourself every morning, reacting emotionally and not changing anything about your life isn’t going to help with that. What you need to focus on are the actions that will affect that number. Stated differently, your resolution for the year should not be to lose X kilos in Y months, but to do the things that will cause the change you’re after. With that in mind, here are some resolutions for the New Year that will get you closer to your goals. 1Eat dessert only 62 times this yearThere are a total of 52 weeks in 2016. How about eating dessert once a week and on 10 other days? The 10 other days should be days you choose — relevant festivals, important birthdays/anniversaries and respectable life events.2Get at least 104 workouts in for the yearIt doesn’t matter what kind of training. It could be a run or yoga or strength training or Zumba. At 500 calories burnt per session, you’ll burn a good 50,000+ calories during the year which will result in an approximately 7 kg weight loss in addition to the myriad other health and lifestyle benefits that stem from exercising consistently.3 Walk at least 10,000 steps everydayThat’s about seven to eight kilometres. Don’t try counting. Get a pedometer. It’s cheap and will keep you motivated. 4Eat vegetables with every mealInclude some form of vegetables in every plate of food you eat. It could be dosa or eggs or rice or maybe even bread. Find a way to pair vegetables. 5Never lose your coolStress is a big part of health and fat loss. The calmer you are, the easier it is to lose fat and get in shape. The more often you stress out, the harder it is to lose even a few hundred grams of fat. 6Book your vacation before MarchFor some it is Prague and for some it is Pondy, but a vacation is simply a break from routine life and it is necessary to help you recharge and continue to do better. Why book everything before March? Because the year will only get busier and you will only find more reasons to not take a break. 7Don’t trash your cityHow is this related to health, fitness or fat loss? It’s not. But still, don’t trash. Do at least five of these seven, and you can rest assured that you’ll end 2016 in much better health and shape than you ended 2015. Good luck and a very happy new year to you!