http://www.thehindu.com/features/downtown/Residents%E2%80%99-group-crosses-a-milestone/article13990320.ece

The family of a senior citizen who passed away in Chitlapakkam Muthulakshmi Nagar were put to the added misery of having to take a detour to reach Chitlapakkam burial grounds as there was no link road connecting Pugazhendhi Street and Saradambal Street.This was way back in 1990. With this incident acting as a spur, the residents formed an association – the Chitlapakkam Muthulakshmi Nagar Welfare Association (CMNWA).There were 55 members to start with; now, the association has over 200 members. The association is having its silver jubilee year function today at the Nagar’s park, at 4.25 p.m.The members of the Association pooled in money and purchased a private land and handed it over to the Chitlapakkam Selection Grade Town Panchayat to lay a link road.In the late 1980s and early 1990s, people from other parts of the city started moving to this residential locality. Issues such as lack of street lights, poor water supply and bad roads were plaguing the neighbourhood.“All the issues were promptly addressed by the Association. The members of the Association were proactive and often went the extra mile – in what is a case in point, they fitted more than 50 lamp posts on rooftop homes. The lamp posts were maintained later by the Chitlapakkam Town Panchayat,” L. Sundararaman, president, CMNWA, said. The Association doesn’t just fight for its residents, but also for the public at large. This was proved when water from a private well on Muthulakshmi Street was being sold by vested interests. The Association fought the issue, and put an end to illegal tapping of water.Over 21 streets are covered by the Association. The Association is also a member of the ‘Chitlapakkam Lake Preservation Committee’, and has contributed funds towards preserving the waterbody. It has also insured the life of its members through Janata Personal Accident Policy for deaths resulting from accidents.“Due to continued efforts by the Association, a park has been developed by Chitlapakkam Town Panchayat in Muthulakshmi Nagar. Another notable feature is the introduction of share autos, and mini buses,” S. Kannan, a member of the Association, said. “As part of Silver Jubilee Year, the Association has conducted ‘Swachh Muthulakshmi Nagar’ campaign, a free blood donation camp, an eye camp, and a free health camp for flood-affected people. This year, we will be campaigning for the Underground Drainage System to be implemented in Chitlapakkam, and for the Chennai Water Scheme, which covers areas in and around Pammal, Pozhichalur, Pallavaram and Chromepet, to be extended to Chitlapakkam.”Other activities of the association include honouring of Standard X and XII board examination toppers, conducting sports day and cultural programmes, celebrating Independence Day and Republic Day, conducting summer camps, and Kolam and Navarathiri Kolu competitions. Srividhya Ramaswamy, a member of Association’s Magalir Mandram, says, “From the day we moved to this locality, all the residents interact with each other as if they were park of a joint family.”The uniting force, according to member of the association, is Sundararaman, who has served as the president of the Association for nearly two decades.S. Kannan (secretary), V. Venkatraman and S. Sekar ( joint secretaries), and V. L. Narsimhan and V. Ramajayam (vice-presidents), are the other members.For details, call L. Sundararaman at 9445066061.