http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Residents-of-Hassan-villages-upset-with-garbage-menace/article13989564.ece

In the absence of a well-designed programme to keep the surroundings clean, residents of areas in gram panchayat limits are now facing the problem of garbage menace.With no system having been introduced for collecting the garbage from the doorsteps, residents have been throwing the wastes in vacant sites. Dustbins placed along the roads are always overflowing. Sometimes, wastes are set ablaze, instead of disposing it off scientifically.In places like Vidya Nagar, Vivek Nagar and some upmarket areas coming under the Satyamangala gram panchayat limits in Hassan, the residents have themselves found a way out. They have assigned the duty of collecting the garbage from the doorsteps to some private people. However, such a system has not been introduced in areas like Gundegowda Koplu, Satyamangala and other rural areas. A similar situation is prevailing in almost all villages governed by gram panchayats.On Friday morning, dustbins placed near Ring Road, near Gundegowda Koplu circle, were overflowing and therefore, somebody had set it on fire. Residents and students of schools in the surrounding areas were forced to inhale unhealthy air. “Two days back, a tyre was burnt in the dustbin and we could not stay in the classroom,” said a teacher in a nearby school. An anganwadi centre is located very close to the place where garbage is being dumped. Children below the age of six have been enrolled in the centre. They are forced inhale polluted air throughout the day. Anganwadi staff too have written to gram panchayat officials to initiate corrective measures in this regard.It is alleged that gram panchayat staff find setting the waste material on fire an easier task, compared to disposing it off, scientifically. However, the officials deny the allegations.P.N. Chandru, Panchayat Development Officer of Satyamangala Gram Panchayat, said, “As per rules, we should not burn the wastes. Our employees have been directed not to do it. We have developed a system under which the dustbins are emptied twice a month. We carry the waste collected in our limits to dumping yards of the Hassan City Municipal Council”, he said.In some places, several organisations and youth forums have taken the initiative for keeping the area clean under the Swacch Bharat scheme. They clean the place on a weekly basis. Gram panchayats provide equipment and vehicles needed for garbage collection.“At present, do not have a plan or a mechanism to collect municipal waste from the doorsteps and dispose it of, scientifically. The gram panchayats located close to urban places obtain assistance of nearest urban local body to address the problem,” said an official.