http://www.thehindu.com/features/kids/Retracing-roots/article14024619.ece

“S hri Gananaatha Sindhura Varna...” sang the children in Shyamala’s music class.“Who wrote this song, Miss?” asked Laya.“This form of music is known as a Gita, and this is the first one that is taught to beginners after they finish the basic swara exercises,” said the teacher.“Who wrote this song and who composed it?” asked Mukund.Back in time“Most of the basic Gitas were composed by the great Haridasa, Shri Purandaradasa. I want to tell you the story of Purandaradasa. He is known as the Grandfather of Carnatic Music, or the Sangeetha Pitamaha,” said Shyamala Miss.“But we have heard that the maximum compositions are by the Trinity of Carnatic Music,” said Rasa.“Yes...that is true, but there is a reason why Purandaradasa is known as the Sangeetha Pitamaha. He was born in 1484 CE, in Tirthahalli. Some people say he was born in Purandaraghatta. His parents, Varadappa Nayaka and Leelavati, were wealthy. Though he inherited his father’s business of gemstones and pawn broking, he realised God and renounced the world. He went from place to place with his tambura, singing the Lord’s praises. He met Guru Vyasatirtha, who was also the Guru of Krishnadevaraya and the kingdom of Vijayanagara. He was accepted as his student and he learnt the scriptures and Upanishads. He then travelled the length and breadth of Karnataka, before retiring to Hampi when was around 80 years old.”“Yes, we remember seeing the Purandara Mantapa, when we visited Hampi,” said Mukund.“Yes, that’s right. The Mantapa was named after him, and he spent his last days there, singing the praises of Lord Vittala. He wanted to compose five lakh keerthanas during his life time, but could only finish 4.75 compositions. Your next project is on this great composer. Collect information on why he is known as the Sangita Pitamaha . In the next class, with all the information you have we can put together the life and works of Shri Purandaradasa,” said Shyamala miss .