http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Revanna-irked-by-delay-in-setting-up-procurement-centres-for-millets-paddy/article14009341.ece

H.D. Revanna, leader of the Janata Dal (Secular) and Holenarsipur MLA, has come down heavily on Minister for Animal Husbandry and in-charge of Hassan district A. Manju for the delay in opening procurement centres for millets and paddy for purchase of these foodgrains from growers at the minimum support price announced earlier.“The district in-charge Minister has no concern for farmers. If he had any concern for farmers in the district, he would have initiated steps to open the procurement centres,” Mr. Revanna said at a press conference here on Tuesday.It had been decided to purchase millets at Rs. 2,000 a quintal and paddy at Rs. 1,510 a quintal. As the government had not yet set up procurement centres, the farmers were forced to sell their produce in the open market for low prices.“Farmers are selling millets at Rs. 1,200 to Rs. 1,300 a quintal, which is far less than the Rs. 2,000 a quintal fixed by the government. Similarly, paddy was not fetching a good price,” he said.The setting up of procurement centres had been delayed because of the government’s failure to release funds to the Karnataka State Cooperative Marketing Federation. The federation had not been able to clear the interest of Rs. 80 lakh on the loan it had taken.“The federation has written to the State government that it will not procure foodgrains owing to lack of funds. The State government has no concern for farmers. District in-charge Minister A. Manju is engaged in scoring political mileage over the schemes sanctioned by the previous government,” he said.Deputy Director of Food and Civil Supplies S.E. Mahadevappa, later in the afternoon, told presspersons that the government had decided to purchase foodgrains from growers through the federation. “We have written to the federation to set up procurement centres and start purchasing foodgrains. However, the federation has said that it has no funds to set up procurement centres,” he said.The delay has been caused owing to government’s failure to release funds to Karnataka State Cooperative Marketing Federation.H.D. Revanna,Holenarsipur MLA