http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/Revive-sugar-factories-says-roundtable/article14023977.ece

The roundtable conference held here on Wednesday, on the revival of Nizam Deccan Sugars Limited (formerly Nizam Sugar Factory) and Nizamabad Cooperative Sugar Factory demanded that the Government immediately lift the deadlock on companies and provide job security to their employees and workers.Attended by all political parties (barring TRS) the meeting also demanded payment of arrears to sugarcane farmers and salaries to employees with immediate effect.It resolved to stage a “Rythu Maha Dharna” on the issue before Indira Park in Hyderabad on February 8 or 10 depending on police permission.After the maha dharna the TJAC would undertake a three-day padayatra in villages where farmers cultivate sugarcane for both the factories to drum up the support for the cause.On the third day a huge public meeting would be held in front of the NDSL Bodhan.Addressing the roundtable the Telangana JAC chairman M. Kodandaram said that the two factories considered the pride of the district became sick due to the wrong policies of previous Governments.Revival of these two factories was the aspiration of the Telangana agitation, he said.Their opening would not be seen as mere problem of workers as they would stand for the development of this region. If they were revamped and reopened the economic activity would get multiplied and past glory could be restored, he said.Government flayed“If we stand united revival would not be difficult. Did we not face the odds in Telangana movement? Let us try hard to achieve our goal,” he said.The NDSL protection committee leader M. Venkat Srinivas Reddy said that both the factories need to be modernised and expanded and more focus must be on the production of ethanol and molasses. The factory could be brought back onto the rail if 2,500 tonnes of cane was crushed every day, he said.The NCSF protection committee convener G. Sai Reddy, criticized that Government had no sincerity, and hence it was not coming forward to run on its own or handing over to farmers.Several crores were being given to unproductive sectors, but just Rs.5 crore was not announced for the factory for its revival, he said.The TJAC Bodhan chairman Gopal Reddy wondered how the Government kept quiet when the NDSL management declared lay-off overnight even after it had 42 per cent share in the factory. He said farmers were ready to grow sugarcane even today provided MSP was assured to them.TJAC official spokesman V. Prabhakar, Dandi Venkat (CPI-M), Kanjara Bhoomaiah (CPI), Akula Papaiah (CPI ML-New Democracy) and JAC district chairman I. Gopal Sarma also spoke.Plan to stage “Rythu Maha Dharna” on the issue at Indira Park in Hyderabad on February 8 or 10 depending on police permission