http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Rewarding-the-sentinels-of-Silent-Valley/article13993509.ece

Though he will have to retire from service in another four years, 56-year-old E. Sankaranarayanan felt elated on Saturday when he received the government order making him a permanent staff member of Silent Valley National Park, where he has been rendering exemplary forest protection services for the last three decades as a daily wage worker.The earnings were meagre but that never prevented him from conservation works in the evergreen forests, famous for many endangered species including lion-tailed macaques.“I began here as a watcher 29 years ago. Over the years, I got the responsibility to oversee the safekeeping of the herbal garden set up at Mukkali. The appointment as a permanent employee is indeed a great recognition,” he said.The same is the case with E. Musthafa, aged 56. Mustafa has been working as a daily wage worker in Silent Valley for the last 40 years. He dons the roles of driver, guide, watcher and skilled labourer.Both Sankaranarayanan and Musthafa are among the 100-odd daily wage workers in the State who were made permanent staff by the Forest Department last week.In Silent Valley, 18 workers were made permanent staff. Those temporary hands with more than 20 years of service have been considered this time.Those who got confirmation include driver-cum-photographer Gopi and guide Shanmukhan. All the confirmed workers hail from Karuvara, Poochipara, Sairandhri and Thudukki areas of Silent Valley. Most of them belong to tribal communities.Last year, tribal conservation workers Mari and Ravi got permanent posting. “There are 50 more temporary hands in Silent Valley. We are asking the government to make them also permanent staff. These people are protecting the national park from all kinds of human interference and keeping it as a rich biodiversity reserve,” Mari said.‘Foolproof’“As far as Silent Valley is concerned, the protection remains foolproof only because of these people. They never consider the job as a means for making money or plunder forest resources. We will ensure the rest of the people also get confirmation of job,” said G. Jayaprakash, Assistant Wildlife Warden of Silent Valley.