http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/Rickshaw-puller-helps-cops-nab-murder-suspect/article14018604.ece

A rickshaw puller helped identify the killer of a 40-year-old woman whose body was found in a suitcase on Wednesday.Police said that the woman was killed by her 25-year-old jilted lover.The incident came to light at 7 p.m. on Wednesday when two policemen were patrolling east Delhi’s Chilla village ahead of Republic Day. Constable Kapil had noticed a man with a large suitcase travelling in a rickshaw. Finding his behaviour suspicious, Kapil asked the rickshaw puller to halt and began to question the passenger.Taking advantage of the darkness, the man abandoned the suitcase and fled. The rickshaw puller then led police to the spot where the man had got on.“We began checking the area and soon found one of the broken wheels of the suitcase. That led us to a building where the rickshaw puller found a broken piece of the suitcase’s handle,” said a senior police officer.Ultimately it was the impression of the wheels of the suitcase that led them to the suspect. He was identified as Shahzad, an employee at a beauty parlour.Police later picked up his family for questioning and managed to reach Shahzad over the phone. Police were able to track him since he had not switched his phone off.Aware that Shahzad was headed to Mumbai, a team was flown there while his photographs were sent to police teams in Vadodara and other cities enroute.However, Shahzad returned to Delhi to surrender on learning that his family was being questioned, said a police source.Shahzad and the victim reportedly worked at the same parlour in east Delhi, which is when they got close to each other. The widowed woman, however, moved to another parlour in south Delhi and began drifting away from Shahzad.Upon learning that the woman was seeing someone else, Shahzad called her to his residence on Wednesday.An argument between them turned violent with Shahzad allegedly hitting her and killing her on the spot.He then went out to purchase a suitcase in which he stuffed her body. He was headed to the local bus stand when a policeman asked him to stop. “The suspect had planned to bury the suitcase in a remote area of Uttar Pradesh,” the police said.