http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/Ricky-director-unfazed-by-risky-path/article14012590.ece

Love stories may be the safe bet for most debutant filmmakers, but Rishab Shetty has taken the road less travelled. His first film delves into the issue of development, with Naxalism as the backdrop.Mr. Rishab says about his ambitious venture Ricky : “I have also dealt with the problems special economic zones have in respect to land acquisition and rehabilitation of displaced persons . ” The film is set for release on Friday. It has Rakshit Shetty and Hariypria in the lead roles, besides actors Kishor, Ravi Kale and Achyut Kumar.Romantic angleRicky , named after protagonist Radhakrishna, has a romantic angle to it as well. The film deals with a tragedy that changes the lives of Radhe and Krishna. “It can also be construed as a modern-day love story of Krishna and Radha,” Mr. Rishab says.The film is the outcome of seven years of research. Mr. Rishab was born and brought up in Kerady (Kundapur), around the area where Naxalism grew in the 2000s.“As the Western Ghats surrounds our area, it was regarded a ‘safe’ zone for Maoists. I used to hear stories about clashes between revolutionaries and the State. Such stories became the backdrop of the film,” he says.For instance, the house of agriculturist Gregory Patrao in Kalavaru village was acquired for some work and after a protracted court battle, the district administration had demolished his house. “We inculcated his story into the film. To make it look more realistic, we constructed a house at a cost of Rs.10 lakh from sourced materials and demolished that,” he says.So was there any trouble from the Censor Board or the State, given the film’s backdrop? “No. Censor officials liked the treatment and accorded U/A certificate,” Mr. Rishab says.“The film is not about anything being right or wrong. It is neither for nor against the revolutionary movement. It is a story of conflict. Every issue has two faces. I am trying to explore them and present them cinematically.”- Rishab Shetty ,director of RickyNOT THE FIRSTOF ITS KINDRicky is not the first Kannada film that has delved into Naxalism. In 2007, Rajashekara Rao made Ondu Preethiya Kathe, starring Shankar Aryan and Yajna Shetty. Using the Naxal crisis in Karnataka at that time as the backdrop, Mr. Rao weaved a triangular love story involving Sharat (Mr. Aryan), who joins the Maoists.