http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Rich-haul-for-AP-and-Telangana/article14021201.ece

Media baron Ch. Ramoji Rao, who was conferred with Padma Vibhushan, the second highest civilian honour, was among the 12 eminent people from AP and Telangana who were given Padma awards on Monday by the Union Government.‘More responsibility’Eminent gastroenterologist and Chairman of Asian Institute of Gastroenterology Dr. D. Nageswara Reddy described the conferment of Padma Bhushan as “recognition” to the institution rather than an individual.“Any recognition by the government gives a good feeling,” he said. It also meant added responsibility and said: “We hope we can live up to it.”Former Director of IICT and founder-Chairman of Avra Labs Dr. A.V. Rama Rao said he was a bit surprised on hearing that he was awarded Padma Bhushan. Getting recognition 20 years after retirement was happy news to him and his family.He always believed that science should have relevance to society.He recalled that during his stint with National Chemical Laboratory (NCL), Pune, the first technology after the expiry of patent laws in 1972 was transferred to Cipla laboratories. Subsequently, when he was heading IICT, technology for HIV drug was given to Cipla.Former Rajya Sabha member and writer Dr. Y. Lakshmi Prasad, who was conferred with Padma Bhushan for Literature and Education, said: “I consider Padma Bhushan as recognition of the efforts to promote Telugu language and culture, and would receive it as a representative of all those who are working towards it, across the world.”“My dream is to see Hindi declared as one of the official languages of the United Nations,” said Dr. Lakshmi Prasad, a former professor of Hindi in Andhra University.Tennis player Sania Mirza and badminton star Saina Nehwal were also honoured with Padma Bhushan.Those conferred with Padma Shri are noted artist K. Laxma Goud, cardio-thoracic surgeons — Dr. Mannam Gopichand and Dr. A. Gopala Krishna Gokhale, paediatric surgeon Dr. Nayudamma Yarlagadda, Ms. Sunita Krishnan and Dr. T.V. Narayana for social work.“I am humbled by the recognition. It is a recognition to the cause that I am fighting for the past 25 years. It is also a reiteration of faith in my conviction. As for the movement, the recognition will make me fight stronger,” was how Sunita Krishnan, who runs Prajwala, the anti-trafficking organisation, reacted.Dr. Gokhale said it provided great motivation for him and his team.Baahubali -fame director S.S. Rajamouli was conferred with Padma Shri. However, his name figured in the list of awardees from Karnataka.It is a recognition to the institution rather than an individualDr. D. Nageswara ReddyChairman, Asian Institute of Gastroenterology