http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Riding-a-wave/article14001642.ece

The knees felt weak and wobbly as I stepped out of the pool on to hard ground. Deprived of the buoyancy of water my legs felt biscuits dunked in tea, but then, what else could I expect after plunging in an 18 meter free fall, down near vertical water chutes and tossing through closed tubes before being spewed out in a pool of clear water?It could even get worse. I could have tried one of the scarier water courses where one is spun around viciously in a loop and where only centrifugal force keeps the body in place. Or I could have dropped down a vertical slide where boards are parted from under one’s feet as they would on a hanging platform, and then one is shot feet first into a looping tube like a projectile and spat out eventually into the water below. This ride is rivalled only by the Abyss when one soars to a height of 28 meters in a rubber dinghy, and after a few vertical spins, plummets into a water tunnel at a high speed.These are some of the thrills available at the Vana Nava water park in Hua Hin, a three-hour drive from Bangkok airport in Thailand. Visitors who go there do it once and swear never to venture again. And still they do, because as the man, who was asked why he was hitting his head with a hammer, replied: ‘It feels good when I stop.’ The palpable relief at the end of each tumble-and-splash is so enjoyable that people keep going for repeats.In what is slated to be rides and spills galore promise fun for the entire family. Apart from the gravity defying spins, a wave pool, simulated surf riding, water slides for juniors in a Kiddie Cove, rubber raft paddling and getting doused by a giant bucket are some of the other thrills that keep drawing visitors by the hundreds to Vana Nava day after day.Hua Hin is one of the earliest beach resorts to be developed in Thailand and has been a favourite of the Thai royalty. In a country that has earned world renown for its steamy nightlife, this coastal town is more suited for family holidays and some nice, wet, wholesome fun.It has its beaches with all the fun activities that one expects at the seaside, and hotel resorts where the life seems to centre around well landscaped swimming pools. Cabanas along the beach offer great Thai food. But where there are popular beaches, there will be littering. Fortunately, an NGO called Trash Hero, started by a Swiss visitor gets volunteers every Thursday to clean up the beach. They do a pretty good job of it.Hua Hin offers several other attractions for tourists. The quaint 100-year old railway station, the idyllic Baan Sillapin (Artists’ Village), mountain biking and elephant rides at the Monsoon Valley vineyard, Chopsticks Hill temple, the Pala U waterfalls and the Khomapastr fabric centre can be checked out after one has been doused sufficiently in the water. Though Bangkok has far better choice for shopping, here the Cicada night market — open on the weekends — definitely merits a visit.After doing a round of the night market and getting our portraits sketched at Bhats 60 (Rs 120) a piece guided by the site Trip Advisor, we went looking for Let’s Sea, a restaurant it had rated highly. The map showed that the place was in the vicinity. So we started walking. And we walked and walked and walked, through some desolate, unlit areas and wondered if we had read the directions right. We had. And, in an elegant, secluded restaurant by the beach, on the manicured lawns of this resort, under hanging lanterns and with the waves lapping against the low wall, we had a truly great dining experience.One can drive directly from Bangkok airport to Hua Hin. A van will charge Bh 2500, which is a lot less than any fare to some of the famous seaside resorts. Sedans and buses are also available. Thailand gives visas on arrival which, unless a bunch of flights land at the same time, is more convenient and cheaper. But check the net for the documents required.