http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Rift-between-Hassan-AC-and-tahsildar-comes-to-the-fore/article14025848.ece

The differences between the Assistant Commissioner of Hassan Subdivision and tahsildar here have come out in the open with the latter responding to a notice issued to him recently with regard to a controversy involving three RTI applicants.Tahsildar V. Manjunath has taken exception to Assistant Commissioner E. Vijaya issuing a notice to him.Mr. Manjunath recently wrote to the Superintendent of Police here to blacklist three people H.R. Ramesh Kumar, Dinesh and L. Manjunath, who had sought information from his offices under Right to Information Act. He alleged that they were seeking information on subjects not related to them and disturbing peace in his office. The RTI applicants had complained with the district administration about tahsildar’s reaction. They claimed that the tahsildar had no authority to recommend the police to blacklist them and that the official was acting against the basic principles of the RTI Act.Based on the complaint, Ms. Vijaya issued a notice to Mr. Manjunath on January 23 seeking his response. The tahsildar, in his response filed on January 25, remarked that the act of issuing a notice to him was “not proper”. Further, he told the Assistant Commissioner, “You should have responded to the complaint at your level, instead of issuing a notice. But, without verifying the provisions of the Right to Information Act, you have issued a notice to an honest and efficient officer, who has served the country as a soldier for 20 years, staying away from the family.” Mr. Manjunath was in the armed forces before getting into the Karnataka Administrative Service.The tahsildar’s response has enraged the Assistant Commissioner. When contacted over phone, Ms. Vijaya said, “Officers should have a standard while responding to a notice issued by a senior official. This is not the way. I have just gone through the tahsildar’s response. I will complain with Deputy Commissioner against him.”Tahsildar taxes exception to Assistant Commissioner issuing a noticeThree persons, who had sought some details from tahsildar under RTI, had complained about the manner of response given by of the officialTahsildar had complained with the police about three RTI applicantsHe terms the action of AC ‘not proper’Now, Assistant Commissioner says she will complain against tahsildar with Deputy Commissioner