http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/kozhikode/Rise-in-incidence-of-malaria-in-city/article13996328.ece

A spurt in cases of malaria at Chevayur, near the Government Medical College, has put the Health Department in Kozhikode district on high alert. A five-year-old girl from a migrant worker’s family died a week ago while five malaria positive cases were reported last Friday, and two more were reported on Monday from the region. After the girl’s death, Health officials have camped in the area and are making efforts to curb the spread of the disease and create awareness of preventive measures.District Medical Officer R.L. Saritha said the situation was serious as it was off-season for such diseases, especially since all the seven cases from Friday to Monday were reported from the same locality. Two of the infectedare schoolchildren.Plasmodium, the parasite that causes malaria, is spread by the sting of female species of anopheles mosquito. The transmission mode is mosquito-human-mosquito. The DMO suspected that migrant workers from malaria-endemic States could be harbouring the parasite, and water-logging at construction sites could be providing breeding space for the mosquitoes.The Health Department is planning to conduct an elaborate mass screening drive and medical camp in the area on Wednesday. There was a spurt in malaria cases at Chekkiyal in December 2015; 12 cases were reported.Situation under controlThe situation is well under control there, Dr. Saritha said. The DMO has also issued an alert to the general public. . Those with fever have been advised to get their blood tested for malaria. Anopheles mosquitoes breed in stagnant freshwater.Hence, water tanks and water containers need to be kept closed or covered using nets to avoid mosquitoes breeding in them. Use of mosquito nets is advised, as are mosquito repellent creams. Guppy fishes could be let into unused wells and water sources to prevent multiplication of mosquitoes.The Health Department has directed all institutions under it to engage in mosquito eradication measures on a war-footing. The public have been urged to observe dry day on Sundays to ensure that there is no breeding grounds for mosquitoes.