http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Rising-to-the-occasion/article14019543.ece

T.J. Sahi is an entertainer. On the basketball court, fancy ball-handling and electric speed gives him a unique identity. When he is not crossing over his marker, Sahi is busy with his YouTube channel, posting videos of fearsome dunks and inspirational fitness routines. For those who seek more entertaining content, the point guard has starred in two catchy Punjabi music videos. It is, however, the sport of basketball that remains at the core. Sahi has represented Punjab and India with distinction, even if his ride has been anything but smooth.In one of his music ventures, titled Asi Haan Diwane Basketball De (translates to 'We are crazy about basketball'), Sahi is seen romancing pretty girls, winning them over with luxury cars and opulent mansions - just reward for his stellar basketball career.Towards the end of the track, it is time for a reality check. A friend enters the room and kicks Sahi, waking him up from a king-sized dream. The music video, which he made by selling his car, ends with the friend admonishing the protagonist for being obsessed with the sport. This sequence is not too far removed from the sobering nature of his waking life. The 29-year-old recently returned to competitive action after a three-year hiatus, which he says was forced upon him by the authorities. “I love basketball, but I did not play because the Punjab Basketball Federation had promised to give me a job, but did not deliver. I don’t have a father; I support my mother. I’ve asked the Federation for a job, and every year, they say that I will get one later. Playing basketball is expensive - shoes, diet and other aspects cost a lot of money,” Sahi says, on the sidelines of the Senior national basketball championship, which concluded at Mysuru recently.Why then, did he return to do duty for his State? “I came back because the Federation has arranged for me to meet with the Punjab Chief Minister. They (officials) told me that if I represent Punjab here, I will definitely get a job when I return,” he says. Sahi has kept his end of the bargain, guiding his side to the semi-finals, where they lost to eventual champion, Services. The impressive form of the 6'1" playmaker — he scored points, recorded assists, and controlled the pace of the game admirably — was key to Punjab's run.There have been many occasions where Sahi has contemplated giving up the ghost. "I look at other national and international Indian basketball players, and they all have jobs (most are employed by PSUs, on sports quotas). I feel horrible - sometimes I cry - because I'm the only one without a job. My mother is a housewife, and we run the house with my father's pension. The pension amount is only Rs. 10,000 per month - it is tough to manage."Sahi also faces the additional obstacle of being a comparatively short hoopster. He appears to be a carbon copy of former Sacramento Kings point guard, Jason Williams - unorthodox freestyle dribbling, no-look passes, and close-shaven military hairstyle. It turns out that Sahi's role model is in fact Allen Iverson, another all-time NBA great. Neither Iverson nor Williams were big men, something that Sahi can relate to. "If I walk down the street with a seven-foot guy, people will think that the other guy is a basketball player, and not me. But if we both get on the court, I'll prove everybody wrong. Basketball is about running up and down for 40 minutes, and I can do this very well. The media should educate their readers that it is actually the short players who run the game. I want to stress on this point, and motivate the average Indian to take up basketball."Despite all the trials and tribulations, the Punjabi believes that good tidings await. "When I was a kid, I was actively involved in athletics. Basketball was not even a part of my life. But somehow, God brought me here. I am sure that God has great plans for me," Sahi says.