http://www.thehindu.com/features/kids/Road-to-victory/article13999387.ece

American poet, Ralph Waldo Emerson said, “A man is a god in ruins”. A God in Ruins is also the tale of a Second World War bomber pilot, Teddy Todd, as he navigates through different stages of life, in a rapidly changing world. It is for this book that author Kate Atkinson won the Costa Novel Prize. Last week, Atkinson became the first author to win the Costa Prize three times.A God in Ruins is Atkinson’s ninth novel and it beat Man Booker prize winner Anne Enright’s The Green Road, Patrick Gale’s A Place Called Winter and Melissa Harrison’s At Hawthorn Time.Winner all the wayAtkinson was born in York and her father was a shopkeeper. After completing her schooling, she went on to pursue English literature at the University of Dundee, and graduated with a master’s degree in 1974. After graduation, she took up many jobs ranging from legal secretary to teacher, before getting started as an author.Her first novel, Behind the Scenes at the Museum, won the 1995 Whitbread Book of the Year and also went on to be a Sunday Times bestseller. After the success of her first novel, there was no looking back and she forged ahead and published eight more novels, a play, and a collection of short stories. Also to Atkinson’s credit is a series of four novels, starting with Case Histories, which featured Jackson Brodie, private investigator and former police inspector. The four novels have been adapted for the BBC, as part of the series titled Case Histories. It features English actor Jason Isaacs as Brodie.A God in Ruins is described by Stephen King as “an amazing piece of fiction” and it is the sequel to Life after Life which also won the Costa Award in 2013. The book received praise for being “utterly magnificent and in a class of its own”, by the judges and Atkinson admits that it is one of the best novels she has written.“It is absolutely wonderful to have it validated in this way. I’m delighted that it has been chosen as Costa novel of the year, after Life After Life was similarly recognised,” said the delighted author.