http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/Rohith%E2%80%99s-caste-status-probe-may-take-longer/article14017615.ece

Can being brought up by a Backward Class community family deny a woman her right to Scheduled Caste status? That is what Banala Radhika, mother of research scholar Rohith Vemula, who committed suicide, wants to know from the persons questioning her right to claim SC status.Apparently agitated over reports raising doubts over assertions that she and her son were Dalits, she reiterated that she belonged to SC (Mala) community. Mother of three children — two sons and a daughter, who got married,-- the woman reiterated that her caste was SC (Mala).The woman contended that she was informally adopted by a couple of Vaddera community - Banala Musalaiah and Anjani Devi- after she was found in a SC locality in Guntur at the age of five years. Since they belonged to Vaddera community, Ms. Radhika’s hand was given in marriage to Mani Kumar of the same community.She said she didn’t dispute the fact that she was married to Mani Kumar of Vaddera community hailing from Gurajala of Guntur district.“I divorced Kumar for personal reasons and started living with my three children subsequently in SC (Mala) locality …. I followed all traditions and customs of SC community,” she said in a press statement issued here on Saturday.The investigators, however, say since the Prevention of Atrocities against Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Act was invoked in the case registered following Rohith’s suicide, it was pertinent for them to ascertain the victim’s case.“To stand in the court of law, the victim must be either from the SC or ST community to invoke the Act. It is equally important that the accused should not belong to SC or ST community,” the investigators maintain. They possess the SC certificate issued by the Andhra Pradesh Government to Rohith.“But claims of Rohith’s father that he and his wife (Radhika) belonged to Vaddera community compelled us to probe further,” they maintain. Sarpanch of Gurajala village in Guntur, where Rohith’s father lives, told the police that Ms. Radhika was from Vaddera community.When they checked records of Jalagam Rama Rao Municipal School in Guntur, they found that Radhika’s caste was mentioned as Vaddera. Her cousin, in a statement recorded by the police, too contended that he and Radhika were from the same community.With Rohith’s mother claiming that she was informally adopted by her parents, the police have decided to present all the documents and other evidence they had secured in the court of law. “Since our findings are contradicting the claims of Rohith’s mother, we will seek the court direction on how to proceed further,” the police said.