http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/letters/Rohith-Vemula%E2%80%99s-death/article14010188.ece

About 66 years after our Constitution outlawed untouchability, the social evil of caste discrimination continues to act as a rot in our social fabric (“Death of a Dalit scholar”, Jan.19). The dreams of Rohith will remain dreams because of his tragic suicide. Law enforcement authorities need to probe into the incident and provide suitable punishment to those found guilty lest such forms of discrimination give rise to another form of armed rebellion.Ajay Kumar,BareillyThe death of Rohith Vemula has left us shocked and saddened. That the extreme step was taken in a state of mental agony and emotional suffering is clear from the note he left behind. The prevailing circumstances that have aptly been described as “feudal passions of caste” and “caste terrorism” have put the very idea of justice and equality into question. That the next generation of thought leaders struggle in such strangulating educational spaces raises doubts about the very idea of education as a tool for freedom and reform.Vemula has paid with his life but his note must not go unnoticed. Only by annihilating the hydra-headed monster of caste can we pay tribute to this young victim of caste terrorism. In stating that he wasn’t hurt or sad, but “just empty”, Vemula has left a strong message to prick our collective conscience.Manzar Imam,New DelhiOur Constitution gives us some fundamental rights, which are the same for every citizen. Discrimination on the basis of caste is clearly violative of the rights. Even with such stringent provisions and laws, if we fail to prohibit discrimination, it is not due to lack of protection but the way the measures are implemented. The Thorat Committee had highlighted the need for teachers to show greater sensitivity.Only admissions through reservation will not weed out social prejudices. Proper training is needed to be given both to teachers and students, to enhance the skills and competence level of the students enrolled on reserved seats. Well-developed preparatory courses and relaxation in the courses’ time frame will be some positive steps.Kumar Manish,PatnaBe it the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi, the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) in Chennai or the University of Hyderabad, the tale of stigma and segregation repeats itself. Mere expulsion from classes is unlikely to have been the driving reason for Rohith Vemula committing suicide. The tragic act has more to do with the way discrimination and injustice were meted out to him and four other Dalit students. All perpetrators of such unconstitutional practices in what are supposed to be temples of learning must be brought to book.M. Somasekhar Prasad,Badvel, Andhra Pradesh Though Vemula’s letter did not hold anyone responsible for his suicide, it speaks volumes about our deep-rooted prejudices against the socially disadvantaged sections of our society. Though Vemula was not the first student to end his life in the campus, hopefully his suicide will be the last such incident. His words, “My birth is my fatal accident”, showed that many students are resigned to blaming their caste for pains inflicted from outside. Now that criminal cases have been registered against the Vice-Chancellor, his continuation as the V-C is bound to hamper an independent investigation. The State government must institute a judicial inquiry headed by a former judge, preferably from a different State.S.K. Choudhury,Bengaluru I feel as deeply as anyone else for Rohith Vemula. What happened to him was very unfortunate and no individual should have to face a situation where the most desired path is ending his/her own life. However, while reading the article “He has left us with only his words” (Jan.19), I couldn’t help but notice a certain generalisation on the part of the author while talking of people from the higher castes. This is seen while branding all our universities as “modern killing fields” while referring to the caste atrocities committed there. By using phrases like “let every despicable casteist force wince when they encounter a Dalit” and “we have come here also to teach them an unforgettable lesson”, the esteemed poet and writer omes across as promoting the path of fighting fire with fire.Abhinav Sinha,New Delhi