http://www.thehindu.com/features/kids/Romance-is-in-the-air/article13986319.ece

Have you seen a reality show? You know, the kind where there are a bunch of non-actors from real life and they must fulfil a task, and while they are in cut-throat competition with one another, they also form emotional bonds and cry and laugh and fight together along the way?That’s sort of the point behind how the Romantic era came about in the late 18 and early 19 Century. The Classical era was all about structure, discipline, and other formulaic things to apply to music. But then people realised music was not about mathematics and engineering. It had to be about emotions, universal truth and inner catharsis. They say romance is bittersweet, right? Well, the same way music too had to find beauty in the morbid, solace in tragedy, pathos in comedy. This coexistence of contrasts is what gave appeal to music in the Romantic era.By this era, the effects of industrialisation had created a full-fledged consumer class with money to spend at the opera at the end of a hard day’s work. So, musicians, who till now earned their living as performers for aristocratic patrons, were able to strike out on their own as professional artists in the public arena. Composers like Ludwig van Beethoven, FrédéricChopin, Franz Liszt and Richard Wagner earned a name as piano virtuosos, skilled enough to hold an auditorium rapt with their own pieces.Marriage…of sorts!The Bel Canto became popular during this period. This is a type of compositional style which really likes to bring out the emotional quality in a piece of music rather than stuff it with dramatism and power like they did in the Classical or Baroque period.Artists and litterateurs began to focus on visual poetry. If you haven’t read anything by Ralph Waldo Emerson, you really should (he spent so much time in gardens it was a wonder the gravity-epiphany apple didn’t fall on his head. Composers like Giuseppe Verdi or Richard Wagner really got into the whole Romantic aesthetic by tapping into nature as inspiration for their works.Liszt wrote evocative pieces called Les Préludes where he would take paintings, plays, or poems and squeeze music out of them. These were called symphonic poems.(www.youtube.com/watch?v=zDEem_aEttE)Chopin was inspired by these pieces called concert overtures, and wrote short piano pieces for salons where rich people went. His music was known for being spooky, sad, exciting and depressingly beautiful all at the same time (www.youtube.com/watch?v=_hyAOYMUVDs)Wagner developed the German music drama genre into full-blown musical operas which were known as “total works of art”.And that’s what the Romantic era contributed to today’s music. It took it out of its isolation in people’s auditory senses and married it to other forms of art. You’d never have seen a MTV music video if not for this era!Game: SticklinkCheck out the slideshow and try your hand at the game we have for you.