http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Room-with-a-%E2%80%98whew%E2%80%99/article14006982.ece

I’ve learnt a few new words and facts pertaining to termites, thanks to a room (or was it outhouse?) in which we spent two nights during our road trip. As I did my morning yoga on newspapers spread out on the dusty cement floor (didn’t want to sully my mat), I gazed up serenely at trails of powdery soil branching out across the low wooden ceiling and actually hanging down like stalactites. They were coffee-brown and not the shade of reddish clay I was familiar with. Later, I did a spot of online research and found out that the soil is nothing but termite shit — faecal pellets as they’re known, or frass, the excreta of leaf-eating or boring insects.Hotel rooms are like a box of chocolates (to misquote Forrest Gump) — you never know what you’re gonna get. Even if you book them online, their virtual images may not reveal their true colours. Only when you actually step across the threshold with your luggage can you sense whether your stay is going to be an “aha” or an “oh-oh”, an “ooh” or a “whew”. My golden rule of thumb while travelling is to forget the ‘mis’ in misadventure and treat every surprise, pleasant or otherwise, as an adventure. The manner in which I draw up a tour schedule leaves room for many such surprises because it’s not writ in stone. Unlike those who meticulously flag every night-halt two months in advance, I prefer to sprinkle a little uncertainty here and there. It’s somewhat like tying a mosquito net: you secure the corners but what lies in between hangs loose.Obviously, you bag your room beforehand when you know you’ll be arriving at tourist hotspots, but you can easily find a roof on rent in locations that aren’t exactly wildly popular. Or so you’d believe. But incredibly, a mere sports tournament or business convention can fill up every inch of space in every single hotel in a small town. This is how we ended up in the outhouse. Its bathroom had a granite floor like you’d find in your grandfather’s village, and no shower, but hell, it had a miniature geyser, and so what if the bathwater collected in a puddle around your feet? The white sheets and pillow cases were freshly laundered. Outside each room was a large stone bench on which you could sit, or set your drinks while you sat around it in plastic chairs pulled out from the room and listened to music beneath a full moon.The atmosphere of a space is composed of many subtle and sometimes indefinable elements. Neither frass nor frills matter when the vibes are right. Looking back at a sylvan ‘homestay’ we’d occupied, one realises that it was yet another outhouse, but one that boasted the “ooh” factor. It had a tiled roof, and wooden furniture from the ancestral home, but modern bathrooms; these combined with hearty home-cooked meals and bracing weather made for a sublime experience. The outhouse I described earlier (and which one of us rudely called “servant’s quarters”) was strangely charming, but not so another cheap joint, a “whew” by any measure. Detergent had never met the sheets, or a broom the floor, but those were the least of our complaints. When water from the upstairs toilet started tup-tup-ing onto our backs as we squatted (this was Indian-style), that’s when we drew the line and demanded a change of room. But we took it in our stride, for travel generally puts us in a tolerant frame of mind, and the budget traveller is a particularly forgiving soul.Since we were city creatures, our spirits lifted whenever we encountered the familiar benefits of the standard hotel room — the luggage rack, the twin bed with tucked-in coverlet, the cupboard with clothes-hangers and laundry bag, the TV (rarely used) and the kettle (frequently used), the shampoo, soap and shower cap, the thoughtful toothbrush and toothpaste. Aloe vera soap instead of Medimix or a Lifebuoy was an unexpected treat, and what to say of the complementary kit containing ‘luxury’ shampoo, a nail file and an ear-bud! Just when we were growing complacent, though, an oh-oh moment would arrive. The tap would come off in your hand. Or suddenly cease to flow, as it happened in a state government-run hotel one evening. We stomped out of the room to complain and were informed that the error was not human but simian. Monkeys would often turn off the valves near the overhead tanks. In another lodge in a wilder, more remote area, there was a slightly different reason why taps abruptly dried up. The man who went out to switch on the pump saw a snake and rushed back inside. He had to wait until the snake had departed before he could resume his chore.On our last night at a small hotel in Bhopal, we tried to order dinner in our room and received an unusual answer from room service: “It’s being served on the fourth floor, complimentary.” I went up to the terrace and found a party going on. The hotel-owner welcomed me as if I were a visiting dignitary. “We’re celebrating the hotel’s first anniversary,” she said. Every guest was treated to free booze and khana. Now that was a parting gift that measured 9.9 on the Ooh Scale.(Send your feedback to ckmeena@gmail.com)