http://www.thehindu.com/features/education/college-and-university/Rotterdam-experience/article13990363.ece

Rotterdam is unlike any city in the Netherlands. Bombed post the second World War, most of it is modern. The canals, quaint houses and the windmills are conspicuously missing. Hence, I wasn’t particularly pleased by my first vision of Rotterdam. Things became worse when the oft talked word “homesickness” hit me hard in the first few weeks, and all this amidst the search for a decent room. I had my initial concerns on finding common ground with my classmates, but those concerns turned to be unfounded when we discovered our love for Vengaboys, a Dutch band. I was also taken aback when I learnt about a Dutch version of the Benny Lava video, an Indian movie song video that went viral. I couldn’t be more grateful to the perks of globalisation and technology!Every student in the university has a SIN-Online account. All information regarding courses, readings, access to journals, deadlines and assignments are available on it. Classes are few and a lot of time needs to be devoted to self-study. Students are expected to solve their problems individually or in group study sessions. The campus is like a second home; study areas and libraries are open till late for students to use. There are not many restrictions on the campus and you are treated as a responsible adult. For instance, I would have never imagined drinking beer on the campus. The campus houses a small bar and a restaurant where both students and faculty can relax and talk. Besides the restaurant, there is a food court and multiple canteens across the campus.Public transport in the Netherlands is a breeze, and it’s easy to travel back and forth between different cities; the whole of Netherlands is literally a playground. The cycling culture in the country is extremely impressive. The Dutch seem to have superhuman abilities in cycling with one, two, three children, or with luggage, or an umbrella in one hand! Importantly, I saw it as an equaliser — in India we view cycle as a poor man’s vehicle, but here rich or poor, you cycle. With dedicated paths, cycling can be the most liberating feeling. This is one experience I cherish the most here.It has been a year and a half since I made the move to the Netherlands. The populace here is modest, hardworking and extremely independent and individualistic. Do not expect the next door aunty or uncle to invite you for dinners or offer you something. People value their private space here, and initially it is difficult to deal with it. Perhaps the greatest takeaway has been that when moving to another country, it is very important to keep an open mind, not to be judgmental, and show a willingness to learn about their culture. I am already learning Dutch, and despite the private attitude here, I have made wonderful Dutch friends who have invited me to their homes.The writer is pursuing M.A. Cultural Economics and Entrepreneurship at Erasmus University Rotterdam, Netherlands.