http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/RSS-calling-the-shots-in-State-BJP/article14006650.ece

The change of guard in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State unit and the dissensions thrown up by the organisational reshuffle are likely to weigh heavily on the Vimochana Yatra being undertaken by party State president Kummanam Rajasekharan from Kasaragod on Wednesday.Sources said that more than opening the party’s account in the Assembly, Mr. Rajasekharan’s self-imposed brief was to consolidate power. He had been emboldened with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) support, its plan to cash in on the discontent against the rival fronts in the State and the performance in the local body elections. But they maintained that it was not an easy road ahead.The BJP national leadership leaving little scope for democratic dissent within the organisation is learnt to have sowed resentment in the State unit. The Sangh leadership’s claim of having stifled dissent could come unstuck soon after the elections, the sources said. Though the party claims to be riding the crest of a popularity wave across the State, the machinery is focussed in Thiruvananthapuram and Palakkad and is reportedly planning to field an array of leaders in the capital.The alliance with the Bharath Dharma Jana Sena (BDJS), it is feared, may estrange the Nair Service Society (NSS), Brahmana Sabha and such others who had always been arrayed behind the party. Moreover, the BJDS is not a force to reckon with in the segments where the party has pinned high hopes, mainly Thiruvananthapuram and Palakkad.Sources said the credit for the BJP’s faring well in the recent local body elections went to the RSS, and its machinery was equipped to take up even more greater challenges. It has started work at the grassroots-level too. But this is likely to pave the way for a minority consolidation and its impact needs to be watched again.As party sources said the yatra would be focussing on the lapses of the rival fronts and projecting itself as a third alternative. But like the State government, the Centre too had been unable to effectively intervene in a host of issues such as the Western Ghats, rubber, and farm sector crisis.Above all, the Central decision to do away with the separate NRI Department is likely to be a major campaign plank for the rival fronts.The party has also not been able to clear the air over the Aranmula greenfield airport project and also on declaring Sabarimala as a national pilgrimage centre. But the leadership exuded confidence to tackle such issues and was bullish about the party’s Assembly poll prospects, sources said.