http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/RTC-to-buses-to-make-64000-trips/article13988498.ece

The Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) will deploy about 4,000 buses to make over 64,000 trips transporting about 30 lakh pilgrims attending the historic Sammakka Sarakka Jatara in Warangal District next month, said its Executive Director G. Satyanarayana.The TSRTC has drafted 12,000 employees for the jatara duties from across the State and set up over 50 pickup points in 10 districts. The district administration has earmarked more than 60 acres of land for the RTC to set up its temporary bus station, depot, rest rooms, queue lines among others.Mr. Satayanarayana was addressing the leaders of various employees unions apprising them of the arrangements being made for the jatara. “This is stupendous event and every employee engaged on duty needs to sacrifice a lot and dedicate to ensure smooth passage of event. It involves sentiment of people and prestige of the newly-formed State Government,” he explained to the leaders.Mr. Mallesham and Venkanna of Employees Union, Ashok and Babu of the TMU, Reddy and Yakaswamy of the NMU and Chander and Yadagiri of the SWF explained the shortcomings during jatara. They wanted the management to enhance the overtime allowance, ensure proper rest rooms, food and queue management. The Ticket Issuing Machines (TIMs) should be checked before deploying them as a small technical snag may delay the operations during peak hours.Warangal Regional Manager E. Yadagiri urged the employees to cultivate a sense of service and cooperate with the management ignoring trivial issues as management was engaged in looking after welfare of the employees. “The management expects discipline, commitment and dedicated services during the one week of jatara,” he said.Additional SP John Wesley wanted the drivers to ensure line and not to overtake the vehicles during jatara operations. He said police would cooperate and success of jatara depend on the efficiency of police and RTC employees.RTC regional managers – V Chandrasekhar (Karimnagar), M Vijay Kumar (Adilabad) and G Ramakanth (Nizamabad), security officers V Surender Reddy, staff college principal V Bhaskar Rao and others were present.