http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Vijayawada/RTC-drivers-told-to-go-the-extra-mile/article14024254.ece

Vice-Chairman and Managing Director of the AP State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) N. Sambasiva Rao on Tuesday urged drivers of the public transport giant to stretch their driving ability to the utmost limit to serve the public and experience a sense of pride.Addressing a meeting organised in connection with distribution of fuel-efficiency awards to 107 drivers in the Corporation at APSRTC House on the premises of the Pandit Nehru Bus Station, Mr. Rao said last year the organisation had incurred losses to the tune of Rs. 600 crore. “With the best efforts on all fronts, we could only minimise the losses to some extent this year,” he said.Mr. Rao said the RTC could not make the best of the reduction in diesel price in the market because of an additional burden of Rs. 250 crore it had incurred due to hike in employees’ salaries.Citing the example of Ch, Bhaskar Rao, an RTC driver from Nellore depot-2 who operated 75,594 km and saved HSD of 5,014, Mr. Rao said if every single driver worked with similar determination and acumen, the corporation could save up to Rs. 350 crore per anum.He said conservation of petroleum products had assumed greater importance in the wake of the widening gap between the demand and supply from indigenous sources. The APSRTC spends nearly Rs. 1,302 crore every year (29 per cent of its total revenue) on HSD and CNG (Compressed Natural Gas).He said reducing cost of operation was an effective way to overcome the financial constraints the RTC was facing.As part of the Oil and Gas Conservation Fortnight (OGCF) the RTC organised a slew of activities to educate its employees on the need to save fuel.Special campaigns (slogans and exhibits) in all depots and workshops, quiz competitions at regional levels for drivers and mechanics, elocution and essay writing contests were some of the activities taken up to enlighten workers. Koteswara Rao, Executive Director (Engineering and IT), RTC, pointed to the sea change in the APSRTC services in last one year. He said things could be further developed if the drivers gave their best shot.