http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Thiruvananthapuram/Ruling-front%E2%80%99s-bar-licence-policy-blows-up-in-its-face/article14017141.ece

Excise Minister K. Babu becomes the second member in the Oommen Chandy Cabinet to fall in the bar bribery case after Kerala Congress (M) leader K.M. Mani, who quit as Finance Minister following an adverse High Court reference recently.Mr. Babu’s resignation virtually puts the UDF in a political predicament, coming as it did with hardly three months left for the crucial Assembly election. Regretfully for Mr. Chandy, the bar case has taken its toll of one of the most functional Ministers with a high rating of service delivery.Key portfoliosAlong with Excise, he held some important portfolios including Fisheries and Ports. Under his tutelage, the Vizhinjam port development came nearer to being a reality. The traditional fisheries sector also witnessed big leap, with improvement in fisheries harbours, construction of coastal roads, to name a few.The impact of the resignation is more wilting considering the fact that the Thrissur Vigilance court verdict touches a Minister who is known to be closest to the Chief Minister. In a way, it once again proves the liquor lobby’s capability of upsetting political equations. The trouble for the Congress and the UDF began from the day the government decided to come out with a liquor policy that would, in effect, regulate the liquor trade and phase out star liquor bars in the State. A series of political controversies and court cases forced the government to take the harsh decision on shutting down all liquor bars in the name of prohibition. The woes began soon after this, with bribery charges being first levelled against Mr. Mani and then Mr. Babu. It is also an irony that the bar bribery case should continue to haunt the UDF despite the liquor policy being upheld by the Supreme Court.Containing damageThe prompt resignation might help the UDF in containing the damage caused by the Vigilance court observations, but it would continue to provide enough ammunition to the Left Democratic Front and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) to construct its election campaign around an anti-corruption platform.The resignation could have its fallout in Congress factional politics, but how this would span out in the coming days is not clear yet.It could upset the communal equations within the Congress in its attempts to consolidate minority votes ahead of the elections.