http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Rules-on-elephant-parading-still-on-paper/article13992874.ece

It seems the State authorities are waiting for more tragedies to strike for implementing the Supreme Court directive to ensure strict compliance with the rules prescribed for parading elephants in public places.The Heritage Animal Task Force (HATF) has accused the authorities concerned of criminal indifference towards ensuring protection of human as well as well as animal life by implementing the rules in letter and spirit.According to V.K. Venkitachalam, HATF secretary, the six-member committee constituted by the government to conduct an inquiry into the circumstances that led to the killing of C. Gopakumar, veterinary officer, by a captive elephant a year ago is yet to submit its report to the government.The Kerala chapter of the Indian Veterinary Association is observing the first death anniversary of Dr Gopakumar on Monday. Dr. Gopakumar, one among the very few licensed elephant squad members of the Animal Husbandry Department across the State, was known for his passionate care for animals. He played a key role in the rescue and care of captive elephants in central and southern Kerala till he was mauled to death by a captive elephant in musth, which was taken for a temple ceremony at Vaipur, near Mallappally, on January 11, 2015. The tragedy occurred while Dr. Gopakumar was trying to tranquilise the violent pachyderm.Individuals as well as organisations such as the Travancore Devaswom Board had banked on him heavily in safe tranquilisation of elephants in musth and captive elephant care.He was also a saviour of many wild animals that had strayed into the human habitation in the district.14 deaths in 2015Mr. Venkitachalam said 2015 had witnessed killing of 14 persons by elephants in musth. Of this, nine were mahouts and the other five include the veterinary officer, an elephant owner, a car driver a vegetable vendor and an ex-service personnel.A total of 383 captive elephants ran amok in different part of the State in 2015 and 11 captive elephants died due to torture and neglect at various festival places during the period, he said.Mr. Venkitachalam further called upon the Animal Welfare Board of India to take stern steps against those failing to implement the elephant parade rules in the State.