http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Running-to-showcase-the-best-of-India/article14026630.ece

Record-setting Australian endurance runner and former parliamentarian Pat Farmer has said that he is very privileged to be in Kerala as part of the ‘Spirit of India’ run from Kanyakumari to Kashmir to showcase the best that the country has to offer.“I feel very privileged to be here in this beautiful State. I love the coconut palms, I love the fact that it is close to the ocean because my home in Sydney is close to the ocean as well,” Mr. Farmer, who is into the third day of the 60-day run that began on the Republic Day, said.“To me, it’s meaningful to start at Kanyakumari, where the three seas meet, and work up to the mountains from the sea — that speaks of the human spirit,” Mr. Farmer said. “It’s also practical since Kerala feels a bit more like home, whereas the mountains will be cold.”The primary goal of the 4,600-km run is to raise funds for the education of girls. Mr. Farmer, 53, will cover on an average 76 km a day. A Kerala Tourism-branded vehicle and a liaison officer are accompanying the run up to Kasaragod.Farmer, a guest of Kerala Tourism, has entered Kollam district on Thursday after his overnight stopover at Varkala for the first ‘India Evening’ on Wednesday. He also interacted with students of Government Girls High School, Attingal.The nine locations to be covered are Harippad, Kochi, Guruvayur, Feroke, Vadakara, Payyannur and Kasaragod. The next ‘India Evening’ function in Mr. Farmer’s honour is in Kochi on January 29. He will also interact with the students of Government Girls School, Tirur.“It’s a long way. Every day, it’s big mileage and it will be tough — especially over the first week to get acclimatised to the heat and humidity,” he said. “But I don’t want it easy. This is not an Australian journey. It’s about the spirit of India.”He expects to cross the finish line in Srinagar on March 30, following which he is slated to fly back to Delhi for a reception. A crew from Australian television network Channel 9 is shadowing him for shooting 300 sites of cultural significance along, besides his trainer and physiotherapist.