http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/Run-but-don%E2%80%99t-jump-the-gun/article13977128.ece

India’s annual running calendar lists around 150 marathons and runs these days. Mumbai, Hyderabad, Chennai, Bengaluru, Delhi, Pune have a growing runner community that attempt the 5K, 10K , half marathon and full marathon with great gusto. Weekday short runs are supplemented with weekend long-distance group runs and rigorous exercising. But with running bringing in much bragging rights, and looking easy, are beginners jumping headlong into something that requires more thought and planning than imagined? Are they injuring themselves unnecessarily in a hurry to win the race?Many, like Ashwin Bala of Runners For Life, who’s been running over six years now and is part of the organising team for three of Bengaluru’s marathons, believe it’s a problem of “too much, too soon”. “Either they increase their mileage beyond the 10 per cent rule [of not increasing one’s weekly mileage by more than 10 per cent over the previous week], or increase their pace without building an adequate aerobic base,” points out Mr. Bala.Slow and steadyMarathoner Ashok Nath, a seven-time consecutive Boston Marathon qualifier and three-time winner at the Standard Chartered Mumbai Marathon who coaches and mentors runners through his organisation Catalyst Sports, also believes runners just speed things up unnecessarily at the outset. He observes: “Initially there are some short-term results but as the body can’t keep pace with the increasing levels of stress, aches-pains-injuries start to happen. Statistics reveal that annually 65 per cent of runners face some running-related injury.” Our modern lifestyle has led to our bodies carrying stress, tension and, in all probability, excess weight, he says. “The human body is capable of great things but you must adhere to ‘gradual progression’ and not be dictated by what your neighbour, best friend, or the aunty down the street is capable of doing.” Another huge mistake beginners make is that they don’t get enough exercise. Sports physiotherapist and a marathoner and triathlete for the last five years, Dr. Gladson Johnson, who runs Attitude Prime, believes “exercise is medicine”.He says, “Many runners don’t do sufficient strength and flexibility exercises to complement their running. Hence injuries become a natural consequence of poor training.” He suggests that beginners should have a balanced proportion of running and strength and flexibility exercises first. “They must run a minimum of two days per week with three days of strength and flexibility exercises and two days of rest. Stick to one category for at least a year — do only 10-km runs for a year and then take it forward.”To coach or not?The other huge debate is whether you need a coach to teach you how to run or you can figure things out with the help of a support group and peer-sharing. Mr. Nath is very clear that while running may seem simple, it is actually a “skill sport”. “Successful distance running is all about energy management, and if you have the right running technique then you consume (or waste) less energy and are able to maintain your running form longer. The longer you are able to maintain form, the faster and further you are able to run,” he argues.Mr. Bala, however, believes you can run without a coach and not harm yourself if you simply follow certain general rules with regard to running — start slow and gradually work your way up. “The advantage or rather the belief is that if you have a coach, he/she will guide you and not let you commit mistakes.”The perfect postureThere is variation in the running skills to be practised for short- and long-distance races, for running uphill and downhill, for handling fatigue, to pick up the pace, elaborates Mr. Nath. “It is only when your upper body, lower body and mid-section are synchronised that you truly experience fluency in your running. This requires diligent practice as only then do you build ‘positive muscle memory’,” he says. He adds that it is vital to appreciate the muscle fibre type of the runner as that will dictate whether the training plan follows a “top-down or bottom-up” approach. It also helps to study the runners’ personality type, running history and aspirations, health considerations, body composition, etc. To run at his optimal best, Mr. Bala believes in three things — eating right, sleeping well, and training smart. “In that order. The first two are the tough ones to crack. The days I give my best effort on the run are the ones when I would have got at least one, if not both of them right.”Fixing the bad spotsWhen runners approach him with problems, Dr. Johnson says he first identifies what they are deficient in — strength, flexibility or both. “Depending on the deficiency, I prescribe strength or flexibility exercises. We also need to investigate if there are other factors at play such as vitamin, iron or generational nutritional deficiency.”Which brings us to the other bane that plagues Indians — the little devil called vitamin D. “Let us accept that most Indians are deficient in vitamin D but this knowledge is a starting point. There is no reason why through corrective measures — food, sunlight and proper supplements — the deficiency cannot be addressed,” says Mr. Nath.Get your moves right while runningHead: Keep it steady with eyes focused forward.Shoulders: Keep it square and pointed forward like “the headlights of a car”Upper Torso: “Think tall” with a slight forward lean coming as a straight line from the ankles to the ears – don’t bend at the waistArms: Elbows bent at a 90 degree ankle and swung forward & backwards, not across the chestFingers: Gently clenchedHeels: Bent the knees gently and take the heels backLegs: To land beneath or behind you, hitting the ground lightly with a brisk turnoverAnkles: Keep them soft and avoid dorsi-flexing(Tips courtesy: Ashok Nath)bhumika.k@thehindu.co.in