http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/Rush-peaks-bus-railway-stations-choc-a-bloc/article13999367.ece

A whopping over five lakh people left the twin cities, heading for their native places for Sankranti festival since January 8, using every mode of transport. Buses of the Andhra Pradesh and Telangana State Road Transport Corporations and trains were full beyond capacity, as the rush peaked on Wednesday.Over and above the 3,357 scheduled services run by both the corporations, 1,854 specials were operated since evening of January 8. At the rate of about 50 passengers per bus, about 92,700 left the joint Hyderabad for destinations across AP and Telangana. Wednesday though marks the peak and officials expect about 70,000 to a lakh more to leave the twin cities.“To decongest the Mahatma Gandhi Bus Station, we are operating our services from Jubilee Bus Station and other originating points all over the twin cities and the periphery, including Saifabad, Koti, Dilsukhnagar, Vanasthalipuram, LB Nagar, Uppal, Ameerpet, Kukatpally Housing Board and Lingampally, following the hub and spoke model. It helps us save on time and fuel, apart from the sector-wise separation of routes adding to passenger comfort,” said TSRTC’s Regional Manager-Ranga Reddy, R. Gangadhar.“Additional help desks have been set up at different locations and public address systems are in place at all bus stations with updates of departures being communicated for the benefit of passengers. About 500 officials, comprising commercial, traffic and security staff, have been drafted for duty for the past four days to ensure smooth operations and provide a hassle-free experience for passengers,” Mr. Gangadhar said. The South Central Railway (SCR) had an entire battery of commercial, operations and security staff out in full strength at Secunderabad, Hyderabad and Kacheguda stations. At all the three main stations, people were seen scurrying around and using every trick in the book for getting a seat/berth. Apart from laying on a few hundreds of special trains through the week, the SCR added coaches to scheduled trains. At the four toll plazas across the 270-km stretch of the highway between Hyderabad and Vijayawada, at Panthangi near Choutuppal, Gorla Pahad near Nakrekal, Chillakallu and at Keesara, there were long lines of vehicles with an average of 15 to 20 minutes wait at each of them.The Hyderabad-Vijayawada national highway witnessed heavy traffic flow from Wednesday evening since people living in Hyderabad were proceeding to Andhra Pradesh for Sankranti. A large number of vehicles were found waiting at the two toll plazas that are located on the 150-km stretch of NH-65.