http://www.thehindu.com/sport/races/RWITC-to-host-ARC-after-20-years/article14008108.ece

The 36th edition of the Asian Racing Conference (ARC) will be held here at the Mahalaxmi Race Course from Jan. 24 to 29. The last ARC was held in India in 1995.Cyrus Poonawalla, Chairman of the 36th Asian Racing Conference (ARC) organising committee, briefing the press on Monday said: “on behalf of the Turf Authorities of India (TAI) and Asian Racing Federation (ARF), it is incredible to see the enthusiasm that participants from across the racing fraternities have shown in attending the 36th edition of ARC that is being hosted in India after 20 years. I extend a warm welcome to all delegates”.Mr. Vivek Jain, Committee Member of the ARC organising committee, stated: “We will kick off on Sunday, with the Villoo Poonawalla Indian Oaks (Gr. I). In addition to this event there will be the Gool S.Poonawalla Million, the Asian Racing Federation Trophy (which will have guaranteed prize money of Rs. 1 crore, the richest ever race for the Juveniles in India) jointly contributed by the TAI and the Championship Breeders Of India a race which will be sponsored by five Stud Farms of India.”“The evening will be graced by Princess Zahra Aga Khan who will be the Chief Guest on the opening ceremony. The Conference will be inaugurated by the Governor of Maharashtra.“Apart from the presentations and business discussions, the action packed week also promises racing and entertainment social evenings as excellent networking platforms. We have two spectacular evenings, an introduction for India — Athithi Devo Bhava — it would be a song and music event celebrating cultures of India topped on by model and actor Jacqueline Fernandes.”Approximately 655 racing enthusiasts from across the globe will be attending the ARC. Around 140 delegates are from India. Nearly 25 countries will be participating in the conference.ARC programme: Jan. 24: Race day at Mahalaxmi. Jan. 25: Bureau Meetings, Opening Ceremony at NSCI. Jan. 26: First Conference Day: The Wagering Landscape, Breeding, Industry Profiles. Jan. 27: Second Conference Day: Racing Media and the 21st Century Fan. How We Market Racing, Race Course Management, Handicapping & Race Programming, International Horse Movements, Cultural night. Jan. 28: Third Conference Day: Drug-Free racing, the Rising Ride of Illegal Gambling and closing ceremony with Bollywood night. Jan. 29: Stud visit to Poonawalla Stud Farms at Pune.