http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/letters/Sabarimala-entry/article14003656.ece

The Sabarimala temple’s rule that women belonging to the age group of 10-50 cannot enter the Ayyappan temple is farcical (“Do you have a constitutional right to prevent women's entry at Sabarimala? SC to Devaswom,” Jan.11). Biology cannot be a determinant for devotion. Prayers and worship are mind-related, not body-related. Hence, it is natural for women devotees to seek permission for worship at the temple.K. Pradeep,ChennaiThe issue of allowing entry to women of all age groups into the Sabarimala temple is much more than a mere question of gender equality and freedom of worship. The temple and its deity, Sri Ayyappa, do not belong to mainstream Hinduism as we understand it. Devotees from different States, from different castes, respect and scrupulously observe unique and rigorous rituals associated with the annual pilgrimage to the temple. Those trying to tamper with its traditions should keep in mind the hurt they cause to millions of devotees. I am sure that a majority of women from the households of the temple’s traditional devotees support its current customs. Our Constitution and our laws with their often conflicting provisions, is not clear on such specific questions. Judicial interpretations on such issues should take into account the views of those directly involved in the state of affairs.S. Jagathsimhan Nair,ThiruvananthapuramThough there can be differing opinions on whether the temple administration can prohibit entry to women of a certain age group, what cannot be denied is that the state has a duty to minimise inequality, as stated in the directive principles (“The case against customary exclusion,” Jan.15). One can also cite the fundamental duties mentioned in Article 51(A) of our Constitution where it is given that it is the duty of every citizen “to renounce practices derogatory to the dignity of women” and “to develop scientific temper, humanism and the spirit of inquiry and reform”. The Supreme Court should interpret the Constitution, taking these provisions into consideration.Nikhil Gaikwad,PuneA narrow legalistic focus on constitutional validity of a custom could result in the court interfering in the religious practices in Hindu temples that vary across different places of worship. For instance, women are not prevented from worshipping at other temples dedicated to the same deity. The court must also look at the larger social milieu of the state. Kerala’s history of empowering the socioeconomic status of women in all walks of life and achieving human development indicators on par with developed nations could not have happened in a climate of gender discrimination. It is a fact that most women, especially in Kerala, are not clamouring for entry into Sabarimala. The court must not be carried away by the intervention of misinformed advocates of freedom who cannot grasp the nuances of essential Hindu traditions relating to certain temples.V.N. Mukundarajan,Thiruvananthapuram