http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/Sack-VC-if-your-tears-are-real-Rahul-tells-Modi/article14015995.ece

Questioning Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his emotional remarks on Dalit scholar Rohith Vemula, who allegedly hanged himself to death after he was expelled from his hostel, Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi on Saturday challenged the Prime Minister to sack the Vice-Chancellor of Hyderabad University if his “tears are real.”“The PM gave a speech where he expressed grief and agony over the death of the scholar. People say he even had tears...I would ask him, ‘If you are saddened, if your tears are real, then act against the V-C who crushed and intimated that boy and sack him,” Mr. Gandhi said.On Friday, while addressing a convocation ceremony here >Mr. Modi broke his silence over the issue and expressed agony on the suicide of Vemula.Mr. Modi should “stop talking and start doing,” Mr. Gandhi said, accusing the NDA government of trying to suppress the voice of students. “The nation’s poor and Dalit are looking up at Mr. Modi seeking answers, will our PM take action,” the Amethi MP said. Mr. Gandhi visited Hyderabad recently to show solidarity with the grieving family and friends of Vemula.Taking a swipe at the the Vice Chancellor, Mr. Gandhi said that to further a particular ideology a student was compelled to commit suicide. “Weak sections are being oppressed. Be it a farmer in Bundelkhand or a Dalit youth in Hyderabad. Whenever you see a weak oppressed, you will find Congress party and Rahul Gandhi,” Mr. Gandhi told farmers after a 7-km padhyatra in Mahoba district of drought-hit Bundelkhand region.The Uttar Pradesh government has declared 51 out of 74 districts in the State as drought affected and some of the worst affected areas fall in Bundelkhand.Accusing Mr. Modi of ignoring the interests of farmers in favour of corporate houses, Mr. Gandhi said, “If you do not listen to their voice and understand the true power of the youth and the poor, you will face heavy damage.”With a little more than a year left to the 2017 Assembly elections, Mr. Gandhi’s padayatra is understood to be part of the Congress’ outreach towards the poor and farmers. “I have come here to draw the attention of PM Modi and CM Akhilesh to Bundelkhand and the problems of the farmers,” Mr. Gandhi said. The leader also interacted with women self-help groups.He recalled the 7,500 crore package given to the region, spread across UP and Madhya Pradesh, under the UPA government but lamented that State governments did not allow the benefits to reach the targeted sections. “It is unfortunate that you could not get the benefits of this package. We tried out best that the money reaches you. But the SP and the BSP did not let it happen,” Mr. Gandhi said.