http://www.thehindu.com/sport/other-sports/Saina-may-play/article14000056.ece

Awadhe Warriors’ star Saina Nehwal, might play against Mumbai Rockets in the semifinals of the Premier Badminton League championship to be held at Gachibowli Stadium here on Friday.A senior official of the team informed that though Saina is expected to have another training session on Friday before taking a final call, her body language suggests that she is very keen to play this crucial game after having missed the last two league games against Hyderabad Hunters and Chennai Smashers here.The London Olympics bronze medallist did have a light training session with her teammates at the Gopi Academy in the morning and then a strengthening session in the evening on Thursday. It is said that Saina, who actually did not figure in the line-up against Chennai Smashers in the last league match when the much-awaited clash against P.V. Sindhu did not take place, should be in the starting line-up given the importance of the match.If Saina pulls out at the last minute to rest her injured foot as she had done thrice in this edition so far, then G. Vrushali should take her place in the women’s singles tie.On a highB. Sai Praneeth, who downed his training partner and the more experienced Parupalli Kashyap of Hyderabad Hunters and then Sony Dwi Kuncoro of Chennai Smashers in the league matches here, is on a high. “I have done well so far and want to finish off at home in style,” said the Warriors’ men’s singles player.Meanwhile, Mumbai Rockets had a full-length training session in the evening. Coach Ram Nayyar says they are more focused on their strong points than on thinking who will figure in the rival line-up. “Yes, the 0-5 loss against Delhi Acers in the last league game (in Bengaluru) was disappointing and can happen to any team. But, it is time to put behind that and look ahead. The key is how focused we will be out there on the court,” he said.“Our doubles teams look solid. Even in men’s singles we have very good players in H.S. Prannoy and Gurusaidutt who are capable of upsetting the best on their day. We are very confident of a good show from these two also,” the Rockets coach said. “The mood is upbeat and all we are looking for is one good performance to move into the final,” he concluded.