http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Salad-days-are-here-again/article14012011.ece

It’s nostalgia time for many techies as the competition heats up at the State School Arts Festival that’s on in the city. There seem to be a lot of IT professionals in Technopark and beyond who have taken part in the annual cultural contests and its all important prequels/ screening process, the sub-district and district youth fetes, during their school days.Sruthy Thampuratty is one such techie. She was a fixture at youth fetes for four years from 2000, participating in contests as varied as Bharatanatyam, folk dance, Kerala Natanam, Kathaprasangam, and Kannada recitation, to name a few. She’s even won the top prize in the state for Mohiniyattam, Bharatanatyam and monoact and was adjudged as the ‘kalathilakam’ (a now defunct title for the top scoring female participant) of Alappuzha district in 2004. “Those youth festival days were some of the most cherished moments of my life. It’s the camaraderie and the atmosphere of being among thousands of students that I miss the most. When you participate in several contests over the years you get to know many of the other participants, during practice sessions, while waiting for the event to start or your slot number to be called. Many of them are now my friends,” says Sruthy, an associate sales lead at an MNC in Technopark.Deepak George, a Q & A consultant, who represented Kannur district in the Western orchestration in the 2005 contest, also says he made life-long friendships from the fete. “We even have an active Whatsapp group of members of the orchestra. I play the guitar and it was the first time that we had played to such a massive, appreciative crowd. I remember we played a medley of Hindi, English and Malayalam songs, beginning with ‘Dhoom Machale’. We didn’t win, but the experience, the adrenalin rush, was something I’ll never forget,” recalls Deepak. Yet another one who believes that “participation is the main factor and that winning or losing in immaterial in the larger scheme of things” is systems analyst Neethu Prakash. She took part in the youth fetes of 2005 and 2007 and has won A-grades for Margamkali and Thiruvathirakali and was also part of an all-girls band for the contest. “I feel proud to have been part of the fete. It’s quite the reality check to realise that there are performers who are better than you. When you are able to stand out from the best of the best, it can work wonders for your confidence,” she says.Techie Nikhila Suresh, who participated in Bharatanatyam and group dance at the fete in 2000, adds: “I used to take part in local and district-level youth fetes since I was in class four or so. The fetes have always been such heady experiences that even now I enjoy going for them as a spectator. The dance, mimicry, monoact, classical music and instrumental contests are all very popular and I am looking forward to watching them here. I used to pray that I get one of the first slots so as to watch the rest of the contest. It is such an opportunity to learn, to see the latest trends and meet top-notch professional dancers,” she says.They are all of the opinion that a lot has changed since they were participants. “In those days, the fete was much smaller and therefore much more intimate than the media circus it is now. As a participant you got much less exposure too. What has not changed is the appreciation you get. People tend to put you on a pedestal, after all you have to (mostly) be the crème de la crème of young artistes in the state to take part in it,” says Deepa Sateesh Babu, a senior software engineer. She took part in drama, monoact, Thiruvathirakali and Oppana in several youth fetes between 1999 and 2004, representing Alappuzha. Deepak chips in: “The contest remains as tough and challenging as ever but as the festival grew in size and stature, I think there has been a worrying dip in quality and that’s despite the advantages that participants have today in terms of advanced facilities, venues, technology, relaxed rules and so on when compared to the past.” He knows for he is often called to judge local contests whenever he visits Thalassery, his hometown.Nonetheless, they all say that the youth fete, despite its many drawbacks, is necessary. “Academics should not be the be all and end all of school life. Contrary to popular opinion, not every one is in it to get grace marks for examinations; most of those who participate in the fete do so because they are passionate about it or simply for the fun of it. Also, the youth fetes have really given a boost to art forms in the state and have over the years fostered an informed audience if not sustained practitioners, who will keep them alive,” says Deepa, summing it up for her fellow techies.