http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/tamil-nadu/SALEM/article14014642.ece

Ramakrishna Mission Ashram: Narai S. Nellaiappan speaks on ‘Swami Thiriyananda’s life’, 7 p.m.Sri Skandashramam Trust, Udaiyapatti: Thaipoosam festival, Varushabishegam, 8.30 a.m.; pournami puja, 6 p.m.Shree Parshwanath Jain Trust: Sri Kesariya Swetambar Jain Temple Maha Kumbabishekam, pujas, 9 a.m.; devotional songs concert, temple premises, Sankarnagar, 6 p.m.TNAU Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Sandhiyur: Pre Rabi campaign cum seminar on agriculture and horticulture technologies for Salem district, H. Philip, Director of Extension Education, TNAU, Coimbatore, V. Panneerselvam, MP, N. Sriram, Programme Coordinator, ICAR-KVK, and others speak, KVK premises, 10 a.m.Sri Sarada College for Women: College Day, C. Swaminathan, Vice Chancellor, Periyar University, chief guest, 9.30 a.m.The Salem Polytechnic College: Toppers Day and annual day, R. Panchanadhan, Director, Talent Consultancy, Tiruchi, chief guest, A. Duraisamy, chairman, presides, 9 a.m.Tangedco: Salem Electricity Distribution Circle, power consumers grievances day meeting, Attur, 11 a.m.Knowledge Business School and Confederation of Indian Industry-Salem: Faculty development programme, 9.30 a.m.Knowledge Institute of Technology: Centre for Excellence for Embedded Systems Design and Development, ISTE Student Chapter sponsored workshop, 10 a.m.National Book Trust and New Century Book House: National Book Festival book exhibition, Bose Maidan, 9.30 a.m.NAMAKKALMahendra Institute of Engineering and Technology: Department of Mechanical Engineering, national level workshop, 10 a.m.Paavai College of Engineering: Campus recruitment programme by Zealous Services, 9 a.m.Paavai Engineering College: Campus recruitment programme by TVS-Sundaram Fasteners Limited, 9 a.m. Department of Handlooms and Textiles: Pongal Festival handloom exhibition, Sri Namagiriamman Thirumana Mandapam, Kulakarai, 9.30 a.m.TIRUCHENGODE:Annual day, 4 p.m.Sengunthar Engineering College: Tamil Manram, 10.30 a.m.KOMARAPALAYAMSSM College of Engineering and Indo-Russian Chamber of Commerce and Industries: Russian cultural dance performance, 10.30 a.m. and5 p.m.ERODENandha Matric Higher Secondary School: 14th annual day, 4 p.m.Bannari Amman Institute of Technology: Workshop on mathematical modelling for engineering research,9.00 a.m.; Inauguration of NSS Camp, Kaliyappagoundanpudur and Vettuvanpudur, 6.30 p.m.Erode Sengunthar Engineering College: Yoga, meditation and kayakalpa training to faculty and students by S. Indra, Professor,Manavalakkalai- Yoga, Ulaga Samudhaya Seva Mandram,10 a.m.Vellalar College of Engineering and Technology: Faculty development programme on engineering mathematics and its applications, talk by G. Sai Sundra Krishnan of PSG College of Technology, 9.30 a.m.EBET Group of Institutions: Campus drive by M/s Vivid Infotech, Chennai, 9.00 a.m.