http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Kochi/Samunnathi-to-compile-detailed-databank-on-forward-communities/article14018923.ece

The Kerala State Welfare Corporation for Forward Communities (Samunnathi) has decided to reach out to community organisations in its efforts to compile a comprehensive databank on forward communities.Talks have been initiated with the Mannam Social Service Society and the Malankara Social Service Society, the social work organs of the Nair Service Society and the major archdiocese of Thiruvananthapram respectively, to encourage community members to register with the databank. More such organisations would be approached even as Samunnathi’s databank creation gathers momentum. “When fully compiled, it would be the first such comprehensive data on forward communities, shedding light on the socio-economic status of forward communities. It would help us effectively fine-tune our intervention measures and evaluate the impact of those measures,” said B. Rajasekharan, chairman, Samunnathi.Hardly two months into the compilation of the databank on its website, Samunnathi has managed to garner the details of one lakh people. This could be achieved after it linked its scholarship assistance programme, Vidya Samunnathi, with the databank. The data, therefore, mostly pertain to students.“Now we have made registration in the databank and the unique ID so generated mandatory for availing all our schemes. This way the data on more adults and families would be accessible,” said K. Ampady, managing director of Samunnathi. The corporation came into being in 2012 with the aim of making effective intervention for nearly 85 lakh people in the State who are outside the ambit of reservation. The databank creation covers a large number of parameters including the socio-economic, educational, cultural, and health aspects of the registrants. “We are even asking the aspirations of these people, whether they are interested in self-employment or have entrepreneurial dreams, the assistance needed to achieve those dreams, etc,” Mr. Ampady said.Hence, the Samunnathi portal, with such a wealth of data, may even double up as a job, blood bank, or even a matrimonial portal.It will help to effectively evaluate all intervention measures andits impact.