http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Visakhapatnam/Sankranti-festival-off-to-a-colourful-start/article14001194.ece

The three-day Sankranti festival got off to a traditional start with ‘Bhogi’ bonfires being lit in many of the streets all over the city in the early hours of Thursday.Men, women and children gathered in good numbers, particularly near apartment complexes, braving the winter chill and had fun piling up the wooden wastes, branches and trunks of trees and old papers that were collected during the past few months. The piles were lit and the bonfires helped the morning revellers from getting warmth from the cold.In some areas, huge logs of palm trees were placed on the roads and burnt. Later during the day, women drew colourful rangolis in their foreyards and placed ‘gobbemalu’ on them. Women and children went round the rangolis and sang ‘gobbillu’ songs.Women drew rangolis and danced around the gobbemalu at a programme organised by Sri Gayatri Welfare and Cultural Youth Academy in front of the Nature Cure Hospital on the Beach Road. ‘Bhogi pallu’ along with flower petals and coins were showered on children.These are believed to ward off evil influences on children. ‘Bommala Koluvu’, a display of the collection of dolls, was put up on the hospital premises.Most of the main roads in the city wore a deserted look as people went to their native villages to celebrate the Sankranthi festival there. Cloth showrooms did good business as last-minute buyers rushed to have new clothes for the ‘pedda pandaga’.Goda Devi Kalyanam was performed at Embar Mannar temple at Kanchara Veedhi in Old Town area. Sri Aadishakti ammavaru at Sri Aadishakti Nagadevi temple at Wood Yard Street was decorated as Andalamma. Swarna pushparchana and special pujas were performed to the deity.Sankranthi rangoli competitions were conducted by Tanmayi Creatives, a cultural organisation, at Vysakhi Jala Udhyana Vanam. Andhra University Vice Chancellor GSN Raju participated as chief guest.‘Sankranthi Kala Puraskaramulu’ were presented to artistes, poets, sportspersons and scholars at a programme organised by Swathi Vasanthi Cultural Academy at Prema Samajam auditorium. MP Kambhampati Haribabu participated as chief guest while City Congress president Behara Bhaskara Rao and BJP State leader J. Prithviraj were the guests of honour.Agarwal Mahasabha will organise a ‘kite festival’ on the beach, opposite Novotel hotel, from 10 a.m. on Makara Sankranthi on Friday. There would be a ‘kite counter’ and also a ‘snacks counter’.Women drew colourful rangolis in their foreyards and placed ‘gobbemalu’ on them. They along with children sang ‘gobbillu’ songs