http://www.thehindu.com/news/international/Sanctions-lifted-as-Iran-complies-with-nuclear-deal/article14001922.ece

The United States officially lifted nuclear sanctions against Iran on Saturday, when Secretary of State John Kerry confirmed in a statement that the International Atomic Energy Agency had verified that Iran had “fully implemented its required commitments” under the >nuclear deal.According to a senior State Department official, Mr. Kerry signed a series of documents including certification to the U.S. government that the IAEA had certified compliance in their report, and waivers to implement lifting of the U.S. Congressional sanctions.U.S. President Barack Obama signed an executive order on Saturday lifting sanctions on Iran related to its nuclear programme after Tehran fulfilled requirements under a nuclear agreement with world powers, the White House said.Mr. Obama determined that Iran’s implementation of the pact “marks a fundamental shift in circumstances with respect to Iran’s nuclear program,” he wrote in the order, released by the White House.Mr. Obama informed top congressional leaders about the move.UNSC receives IAEA nuclear reportThe United Nations Security Council received on Saturday a report by the U.N. nuclear watchdog confirming Iran fulfilled commitments under a nuclear deal with world powers, triggering an automatic end to most U.N. sanctions, diplomats said.The receipt of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) report by the 15-member council terminates seven previous U.N. resolutions, which are now replaced by a resolution adopted on July 20 that carries over some U.N. restrictionsThe European Union’s foreign policy chief said on Saturday that an historic deal between Iran and six world powers to lift crippling sanctions on the Islamic Republic in exchange for it drastically shrinking its nuclear programme had gone into force.“Today we have achieved Implementation Day of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action,” Federica Mogherini told reporters in Vienna, referring to the deal sealed last July.IAEA certifies complianceThe head of the U.N. nuclear agency has confirmed that Iran has met its obligations under a landmark nuclear deal reached with six world powers.Certification by the International Atomic Energy Agency allows Iran to immediately recoup some $100 billion in assets frozen overseas. Iran will also see huge benefits from new oil, trade and financial opportunities after Western sanctions against it are lifted.IAEA director-general Yukiya Amano said on Saturday this means “relations between Iran and the IAEA now enter a new phase. It is an important day for the international community. I congratulate all those who helped make it a reality”.