http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Visakhapatnam/Sankranti-spirit-soars-high/article14003030.ece

Flying kites seems to have caught the fancy of the city folk in a big way. Scores of kites hovered over the Ramakrishna Beach on Saturday at the kite festival organised by the Agarwal Mahasabha on Sankranti Day.The kites in different hues and shapes caught the attention of passers-by on the Beach Road. The event came in as a big relief for parents to spend quality time with their children. There was bonhomie and family bonding and children had a gala time in watching and flying the kites.Kite sellers did brisk business selling the kites at prices ranging from Rs.10 to Rs.30 for ordinary ones and Rs.200 to a few thousands for special ones. The cost of thread bundles started from Rs.100 and went up to Rs.500 and above.Delicious dishesA kite with multiple tails, some with cartoon characters like Doraemon caught the fancy of children. Food stalls serving traditional Rajasthani dishes and snacks were an added attraction at the festival. Agarwal Mahasabha members and their families as also people from the city gathered in large numbers and participated in the event.Children gathered on rooftops on the Beach Road and flew kites. On Saturday also, kite sellers did brisk business as people flew kites at different places on the beach, starting from the Naval Coast Battery to YMCA. Kites were also sold at other places in the city. Thousands of revellers gathered on the beach and celebrated the festival. The city streets in contrast looked deserted as some thousands of families went to their native places to observe the ‘Pedda Panduga’.Gala timeParticipants and visitors had a gala time dancing to the tunes of Hindi numbers dished out by a DJ. Mouth watering delicacies like hot kesar jilebi, kachoris, special Kolkata masala muri, hot chocolate and masala soda drinks.This is the seventh consecutive year in which the kite festival is being organised by the Agarwal Mahasabha, according to its secretary Vishnu Prasad Agarwal and member Naresh Agarwal.