http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Satyanandam-evaded-arrest-citing-health-problems/article13978839.ece

Suspended APSPDCL Divisional Engineer M. Satyanandam, who was allegedly involved in call money-cum-sex racket, tried to avoid police action and was admitted in a private hospital immediately after coming out of the court.The DE was facing allegations for running money-lending business at high interest rates and sexually abusing women borrowers, along with six others. The gang reportedly collected stamp papers, promissory notes, blank cheques from the victims and forcibly got their properties registered in their names.The illegal money lending-cum-sex racket was running for the last few years and the gang trapped many victims and took possession of their lands, houses and other assets.The kingpin of the gang Yelamanchili Srirama Murthy – two other gang members Bhavani Shankar and Dudala Rajesh – were arrested earlier in the case. However, Satyanandam approached the High Court, which granted anticipatory bail.On December 31, the accused, immediately after coming of the court on bail, was admitted in a private hospital located on Besant Road, to create a scene that he was suffering with some health problem. The city police strategically arrested Satyanandam in another case and shifted him to the police station.“When we went to the hospital, the accused was seen taking IV fluids on a bed in the hospital. Family members accompanying Satyanandam resisted police from entering into the ward, and the doctors tried to help the accused citing medical grounds. We explained the severity of the case to doctors and asked them to discharge him immediately. Later, we arrested the accused,” said a police officer.“In a similar case, rowdy sheeter Madamsetty Siva Kumar, was admitted in the hospital and took treatment for more than a week to escape from police. It was very unfortunate that doctors were cooperating hardcore criminals for money. Some professionals were helping the accused by treating them as inpatients citing chronic health problem,” a senior police officer commented.If this is so, police are planning to conduct potency test on Satyanandam in compliance with Section 53 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPc), which enables the investigating authorities to get the accused tested by a designated medical officer. Potency test will check whether the accused is capable of committing a rape or not.The city police conducted similar test on the accused, Srirama Murthy and Rajesh, in the same case a few days ago.