http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Vijayawada/Satyanandam-tried-his-best-to-evade-arrest/article13980476.ece

Suspended APSPDCL Divisional Engineer (DE) M. Satyanandam who is allegedly involved in call money-cum-sex racket, tried to avoid police action by getting himself admitted to a private hospital immediately after coming out of the court.The DE was facing allegations for running money lending business at high interest rates and sexually abusing the women borrowers, along with six others. The gang reportedly collected stamp papers, promissory notes, blank cheques from the victims and forcibly got their properties registered in their names.The money lending-cum-sex racket was running for the last few years and the gang trapped many victims and took possession of their lands, houses and other assets. Police listed Satyanandam as accused No. 4 in the case.The kingpin of the gang Yalamanchili Srirama Murthy – two other gang members Bhavani Shankar and Dudala Rajesh – were arrested earlier in the case. However, Satyanandam managed to secure anticipatory bail from the High Court.On December 31, the DE, immediately after coming out of the court on bail, got admitted to a private hospital located on Besant Road to create a scene that he was suffering from some health problem. The police arrested Satyanandam in another case and shifted him to Ibrahimpatnam police station.“When we went to the hospital, the accused was seen taking IV fluids. His family members put up resistance when police reached the hospital to take him into custody and the doctors too tried to help the accused citing medical grounds. We explained the severity of the case to doctors and asked them to discharge him immediately. Later, we arrested the accused,” said a police officer.“In a similar case, history-sheeter Madamsetty Siva Kumar, was admitted in the hospital and took treatment for more than a week to escape from police. It was very unfortunate that some doctors are cooperating with criminals by treating them as inpatients citing chronic health problems,” a senior police officer commented.While this is so, police are planning to conduct potency test on Satyanandam in compliance with Section 53 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPc), which enables the investigating authorities to get the accused tested by a designated medical officer.Potency test will check whether the accused is capable of committing a rape or not.The city police conducted similar test on the accused, Srirama Murthy and Rajesh, in the same case a few days ago.Accused in the call money racket got himself admitted to a hospital after coming out of court