http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/SC-study-circle-plagued-with-problems/article14018790.ece

The first-of-its-kind Telangana State SC study circle inaugurated by creating much hype is plagued with several problems, causing inconvenience to candidates enrolled in it for undergoing free coaching for TSPSC examinations.During the last Ambedkar birth anniversary celebration, Karimnagar MP B. Vinod Kumar promised to take measures for setting up a study circle in Karimnagar town to provide coaching for SC and ST students to appear in various competitive examinations. Accordingly, he also ensured that the government sanctioned funds for starting the study circle in the month of October last year.The State government sanctioned Rs. 107.64 lakh for the same and released Rs. 25.39 lakh as the first quarter amount for it to start. After searching for various places, the authorities zeroed in on Ambedkar Bhavan, which was lying vacant.After taking up minor repairs and painting the building, the TS SC study circle was formally inaugurated on January 13. The coaching classes started from January 22 . Against a total of 100 candidates selected for the TSPSC group I prelims and group-II examinations, only 72 candidates turned up till Sunday.The candidates enrolled in the free coaching at the study circle were forced to sleep on the floor as the authorities did not provide beds. They also complained that water was entering into the rooms from the toilet due to poor maintenance. They said that there was a mosquito problem on the premises due to the location of the nursery, which was being operated illegally here.Presently, only the boys were provided accommodation at the study circle and the girls were lodged in the SC girls’ hostel in Khasmirgadda locality in the town. The girls were forced to walk every day from the hostel to the study circle in the morning and in the night after completion of the classes.The girls said that though they have comfortable accommodation at the hostel, they were forced to walk a kilometre in the night from the study circle.Accepting that there were initial teething problems at the SC study circle, director Banda Srinivas said that they would overcome all the problems and provide all amenities to the candidates in a phased manner.He said that they were according priority for classed to be conducted by the expert faculty regularly to ensure that the majority of them clear the competitive examinations.