http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/SC-commission-chief-hints-at-political-pressure-behind-suspension/article14006803.ece

Chairperson of the National Commission for Scheduled Castes P.L.Punia has hinted at political pressures working behind the suspension of the five dalit research scholars of the University of Hyderabad, leading to death of Rohith Vemula, who hanged himself on Sunday.Talking to media before leaving for the university here on Monday, Dr. Punia remarked that the role of the Union Minister for Labour and Employment Bandaru Dattatreya was not hidden in the whole incident.“He had written a letter to the Ministry of Human Resources Development (MHRD)… What is stated in the letter is not everything. There is pressure from elsewhere, which is evident from the u-turn taken from the first enquiry which absolved the scholars,” he said.Terming the incident unfortunate and wrong, he said the Commission was taking a serious view of it. Describing Rohith’s suicide note as ‘almost a literary piece’ at a press conference after returning from the university, he said the incident was a social issue and concerned entire dalit community.Likening it to the ban imposed by MHRD on the Ambedkar Periyar Study Circle at IIT, Madras, Dr.Punia said similar patterns are found in both incidents.“They start with make believe stories and make the SC people culprits through enquiries not supported by facts. Why are dalits being targeted repeatedly after this government has taken over?” he questioned.There was no complaint filed by Sushil Kumar, the ABVP leader who was alleged to have been beaten up by the dalit students. Rather, the complaint was made by someone else who was neither victim nor witness, Dr.Punia mentioned. The UoH security officer, deposing as eye witness before the enquiry committee constituted after the allegations, clearly told that there was neither attack nor any violence against Sushil Kumar.“The whole issue gets revived afresh after the letter, and the circle starts rotating again, following which this incident has happened,” he observed.Showing the copy of a letter purportedly written by Rohith asking the Vice-Chancellor to either “give poison to dalits at the time of admission or to provide ropes in their hostel rooms, so that they can kill themselves when they feel like reading Ambedkar,” he said it was unfortunate that such sentiments were being created among the community, and lamented that a brilliant career was snuffed out.Though the government talks of celebrating B.R.Ambedkar’s 125{+t}{+h}anniversary, it has slashed the budget for education, health, sanitation and SC sub-plan.Despite its pro-dalit claims, RSS never comes to the rescue of dalits with regard to any issue right from temple entry to the attacks on dalits, he said.Dr. Punia said records, documents, statements, and presentations will be obtained from all quarters before passing the recommendations.Why are dalits being targeted repeatedly after this government has taken over?P.L. Punia