http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Thiruvananthapuram/SC-dismisses-appeal-on-Vilappilsala-plant/article14015853.ece

There is no escape from constant rains in Kerala and there is no guarantee that refuse from Vilappilsala plant, egged on by the downpour, will not make its way into the already polluted Karamana river and worsen the water and garbage crisis in the State capital, Thiruvananthapuram.“There is so much rain in Kerala... rains and rains and rains... and you want to dump garbage there (Vilappilsala)...” Chief Justice of India T.S. Thakur asked senior advocate V. Giri and advocate K. Rajeev, appearing for the Thiruvananthapuram city Corporation.The Bench, also comprising Justice R. Banumathi, dismissed the appeal filed by the civic body against the order of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to shift the solid waste management plant. The Bench found nothing wrong in the tribunal’s order that it was time the Corporation scouted and found another site within city limits to house the plant.“Where do you take the solid waste now... Where in the present site can you segregate waste,” Chief Justice Thakur asked.The Bench suggested that the city Corporation first prove its bona fide by starting to comply with the tribunal’s order and then, if necessary, approach the NGT in case of any difficulty.In October last year, the southern zone Bench of National Green Tribunal (NGT) had ordered the functioning of the plant be stopped. It directed the Corporation to find another site within city limits and stated that the solid waste management plant at Vilappilsala was illegal and hence should be demolished.Cleaning of siteThe plant has, however, not functioned since 2011 after local agitations compelled closure of its operations. The NGT had also directed that a task force of experts should carry out scientific cleaning of the present site and restore the area to its original condition. The tribunal’s order came on a petition filed by Vilappilsala Janakeeya Samithi president S. Burhan against the Corporation, the Pollution Control Board, and the State government.Corporation plea against green tribunal order for shifting of plant to another site