http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/entertainment/Scars-of-age-pain-and-time/article14024561.ece

akistani artist Aisha Abid Hussain’s solo show ‘Embodiment of the Sublime’ opened at The Loft, Lower Parel, earlier this month. The artist will also participate in the India Art Fair, scheduled to take place in Delhi from January 28 to 31.Hussain has studied fine arts at Goldsmiths College, London, and now teaches at National College of Arts and Beaconhouse National University, both in Lahore. Though she is trained as a traditional miniature painter from Lahore’s National College of Arts, do not expect any Mughal iconography in her work; her links to the tradition are less obvious. She is interested in experimenting with the materiality and texture of wasli, a type of handmade, acid-free archival paper used specifically for painting miniatures.“The term wasli is derived from vasl, the Persian word for union,” Hussain says. “We were taught to create wasli by carefully pasting four sheets together using organic glue. I wondered what would happen to the form if I pasted not four but 100 or 1,000 sheets together.” With this curiosity in mind, she began working on the ‘She Body’ series which is on display at the show in Mumbai. These are mixed-media works that play with collage and permanent ink on paper. She began working on this series in 2008, and hopes to continue adding to it. The current show features six of the works from this series.“I started making these small books. They were bizarre,” she says. “What does it mean to hold a book that one cannot open? The form was becoming almost sculptural. Somebody said they looked like little graves. Who knows what these graves are? Perhaps graves of love, desire, unfulfilled wishes.”These books, or ‘bricks’, as Hussain sometimes likes to call them, have text in both Urdu and English. The Urdu is readable because it is from pages of old, decaying books found in Lahore’s Urdu Bazaar, The English is written by her but it cannot be read because she has strung random letters together to suggest a loss of meaning. “I have immense love for Urdu but it is losing its strength and soul. The literature is getting lost. We are all responsible for letting the colonial language diminish our own.”“Making wasli is a sticky process. That brings it closer to the body. The places where you observe marks of scraping indicate scars left on the body by age, time and pain. The body itself is like a diary that records daily experiences,” says Hussain.Archiving memories is an area of endless fascination for her. She has been collecting love letters written by her parents during their courtship days, and also dipping into the letters exchanged between poets Faiz Ahmed Faiz and Alys Faiz. “I also discovered a few pre-Partition letters written by my grandparents when they were engaged. The paternal side of my family migrated from Batala in Indian Punjab. A lot in those letters is about politics, and the concerns of those times. I have noticed a sense of melancholy in all the love letters I have come across. Someone is writing to someone else who is far away, yet there is a feeling of being together despite the long separation,” says Hussain.Her show, however, is more interested in the ironic than in the romantic, as can be seen in works like ‘Faqat Tumhara’ (Only Yours - male voice), ‘Sirf Tumhari’ (Only Yours - female voice), ‘Lazawal Mohabbat’ (Never-ending Love), and ‘Mijazi Khuda’ (God on Earth). While the titles create an impression of exalted passion, Hussain’s intention is dark humour. From a distance, the works look like carefully inscribed love letters. However, the writing on them is merely an obsessive repetition of the words in the titles of the works.“Miniature painting involves minute, repetitive brush strokes, she says. “We call it pardakht, the technique of rendering dot by dot in a linear way. I started converting dots to letters, and they became words. It was intensely engrossing, somewhat like weaving. The act of repeating something innumerable times is almost like doing a wazifa or recitation. Repetitive declarations of love become meaningless. The whole idea of calling your husband ‘God on Earth’ is so ridiculously funny.”The power play in heterosexual relationships is something she also explored in a previous show, ‘Two Not Together’ (2014), a series of photographic self-portraits that parody wedding albums. She dressed up as both bride and groom to show how couples are required to perform their marital status in public life.Her critique of the institution of marriage also resurfaces in the work ‘Bad Connection but Love is Altogether Another Story’, which is part of the current show in Mumbai. The words ‘Shaadi Mubarak’ written repeatedly on wasli, mimic the short-lived blessings showered on married couples. Hussain also applied gouache (pigments ground in water and thickened with glue) on the paper, and wiped out parts of the text.This is to emphasise the dissonance in marriages and the loss of connection despite the availability of multiple electronic devices to stay connected.‘Till We Meet Again’ can be seen as a depiction of the longing that characterises romantic love. However, it is a quieter, meditative work.It represents the act of crossing out dates on a calendar, a countdown to the day one would be reunited with a loved one. “This work is dedicated to my father, whom I lost in 2015. It is about the promise of meeting him somewhere, sometime, maybe in the afterlife,” says Hussain.Embodiment of the Sublime will show at The Loft, Lower Parel till February 29.The author is a freelance writer