http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/SCB-notice-to-elected-board-member/article14016593.ece

The Secunderabad Cantonment Board has initiated proceedings against its Vice-President and elected Board member S. Keshav Reddy. The move’s timing before Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections has raised eyebrows.Board president Brig. Ajay Singh Negi issued a notice to Mr. Reddy asking him to explain why his membership from the board should not be terminated. The reasons for the notice include abuse of SCB employees and encroachment of government land. Mr. Reddy, member of ward 2, was also accused of violating building norms in the Cantonment.Brig. Negi cited Section 34 of the Cantonments Act, 2006, that allows the Central government to remove a member of the board for misusing position as board member. Encroachment allegations against Mr. Reddy pertain to one property each in Civil Area of Tarbund Bazaar, Sanjeeviah Nagar and Chinna Thokatta.The other two allegations pertain to two alleged instances of abuse of SCB employees which pertain to 2015, one each at Temple Rock enclave and in Tarbund. In the second instance, a police complaint was filed in Bowenpally Police Station.As the word of the notice spread, it sparked speculation if TRS would replace Mr. Reddy as the board’s Vice-President as a pre-emptive damage control measure before GHMC elections. Mr. Reddy is affiliated with the ruling party and is helping it with campaigning in GHMC’s Begumpet Ward.In response to the notice, he told The Hindu that the law is being subverted to target elected representatives working for public cause.“The law is applied selectively by the board. It does not think fit to issue warning notices to a property being constructed A1 Defence Land that came up without acquiring permissions, but demolishes civilian properties without intimating them. Most importantly, the president of the board does have an authority to issue me a notice under Section 34,” he said.The notice period ends on Monday.