http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Thiruvananthapuram/School-fete-procession-to-be-plastic-free/article13993387.ece

The organisers of the 56th State School Arts Festival are concentrating on implementing the green protocol during the week-long event.With the fete venues being declared green zones, the organisers hope to strike a chord with visitors so that they can get across the message of a waste-free Kerala to the maximum number of people.With this aim in sight, they plan to prepare an elaborate float on the waste-free Kerala theme. The float will be at the entrance to the main venue so that visitors will not miss it.On January 18, the gold cup for the festival will reach Kesavadasapuram from Kozhikode at 3 p.m. It will be received by the organising committee and taken in a procession to Putharikandam Maidan where it will be received by Minister for Education P.K. Abdu Rabb. The cup will then be transferred to the treasury for safekeeping.A cultural procession on January 19 will begin from University College at 2.30 p.m. Nearly 5,000 students representing 56 schools will participate in the procession, which will be flagged off by State Police Chief T.P. Senkumar.Chief Minister Oommen Chandy was expected to walk some distance with the procession, the organisers said. The participants would showcase an array of cultural motifs, including Kathakali, Mohiniyattom and Bharathanatyam during the procession.Prior to the flag-off, Athira Murali, who has a number of records to her name, would lead a group of 56 riders who would exhibit daredevil stunts on motorcycles.A group of cyclists from the Sports Authority of India and rollerskaters would follow, and then a team of the Mounted Police on horseback.Following the festival banner would be VIPs, including Minister and MLAs. Individual school teams would follow. Prizes would be presented to three schools who put up the best show, procession committee convener Salu J.R. said.Student Police Cadets, Scouts and Guides, and National Cadet Corps cadets would take part in the procession. Floats by special children under the Inclusive Education for the Disabled programme, the Suchitwa Mission, and so on would be part of the procession.The procession would be devoid of plastic items and banners would be prepared using cloth, Mr. Salu said.The police band is expected to perform at the start and end of the procession.