http://www.thehindu.com/features/education/careers/Scholarship-Alert/article14001571.ece

OXFORD-INDIRA GANDHI GRADUATE SCHOLARSHIPGovernment of India, Somerville College and the University of Oxford are providing scholarships to Indian graduates to study at the University of Oxford.Following courses are included: M.Sc. in Biodiversity, Conservation and Management; M.Sc. in Contemporary India; Master of Public Policy; M.Sc. in Water Science, Policy and Management; M.Sc. in Environmental Change and Management; M.Phil. in Development Studies and Bachelor of Civil Law (BCL).Eligibility: Graduates who demonstrate exceptional academic merit and are interested in any of the above courses at Oxford University.Application: No separate application; candidates must apply online for admission at Oxford University.Prizes and rewards: Course fees, college fees and a grant for living costs for full-time students of at least £14,057.Deadline: January 22Website: http://www.b4s.in/plus/OGG999WORLD BANK ROBERT S. MCNAMARA FELLOWSHIPS PROGRAMMEThe fellowship supports PhD candidates to conduct innovative, development-related, doctoral research under the supervision of a research advisor abroad.Fellows must commit to return to their home country when their fellowship ends to complete their PhD and to work.Eligibility: Candidates who are less than 35 years of age and are enrolled for PhD.Application: OnlinePrizes and rewards: Up to $25,000, covering a six to ten-month period, starting between July and December 2016.Deadline: February 2Website: http://www.b4s.in/plus/WBR925ST. GALLEN WINGS OF EXCELLENCE ESSAY COMPETITION AWARDWrite an essay answer on topic “What are the alternatives to economic growth?” in not more than 2,100 words from your own unique perspective to prove yourself as a true ‘Leader of Tomorrow.’Eligibility: Those enrolled in a graduate or postgraduate programme in any field of study at a regular university and are not more than 30 years.Application: OnlinePrizes and rewards: Swiss Franc (CHF) 20,000 as prize money shared by the three winners.In addition, expenses for travelling, boarding and lodging will be covered.Deadline: February 1Website: http://www.b4s.in/plus/SGW680ACJ AWARDS FOR INVESTIGATIVE JOURNALISMTo recognise and encourage the best works of investigative journalism produced by journalists, editors and newsrooms for Indian readers, viewers and audiences in order to promote journalism in the public interest.There are 2 categories: Print and Digital (newspapers, magazines, websites and other digital platforms); Broadcast (television).Eligibility: Entries can be made for any format of journalism – print, broadcast and digital/multimedia. Only journalistic work that was published or broadcast during January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015 will be considered.Application: Online application or by postPrizes and rewards: A citation and a cash prize of Rs. 2,00,000 each.Deadline: January 31Website: http://www.b4s.in/web/AAF364Courtesy: www.buddy4study.com