http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Visakhapatnam/School-gets-a-total-makeover/article13991850.ece

A few years ago he was looking for a government school premises to lay a basketball court as part of the District Badminton Association’s plan to spread the game among schools. President of DBA and a retired Additional Superintendent of Police T.S.R. Prasad laid the basketball court on the premises of the Zilla Praja Parishad High School at Chandrampalem near Madhurawada and also triggered a total makeover to the school.The school, once full of shrubs on its premises and buildings in a poor state, now looks decent with good flooring, more number of classrooms, desks for pupils in several classrooms, a computer lab, a library, smart classroom run by EdCil India, mineral water, a good number of toilets with running water, pairs of chappals to the pupils who cannot afford them, and many other facilities while the strikingly visible assets are the playground and the facilities for as many as 14 games. There is a flood-lit basketball court, a rare feature for a government school or college, volleyball, kabaddi, shuttle badminton, parallel bars, ball badminton, kho-kho, throwball, and tennicoit courts and two boxing rings on the ground and indoor facility for chess, carrom and table tennis and recently a 200-meter six-lane track was laid on the ground.The facilities and the dedicated Head Master and teachers saw the school strength going up from 1450 in 2012 to 2455 at present. It is also doing well academically, recording 84 per cent and 76 per cent pass percentage in SSC in the last two years. Three of its students have joined IIIT, Nuzvid.With all these excellent features, the ZPP High School at Chandrampalem has received the government’s notice and is expected to be declared as a model school by Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu when he visits the school on one of the days during the three-day Partnership Summit being held in the city from Sunday.HM’s dedicationWhat made him to take special interest in the school and develop it is the dedication of Head Master M. Raja Babu, who spends a few thousands of rupees from his pocket every month on the students is the sincerity of teachers and the disciplined students who are all poor and needed support.An almost dry tank on the school premises was filled up to lay the basketball court. It was filled with 700 lorry-loads of debris and 300 lorry-loads of red mud. Even before the ground took shape, the school children and others wanted a compound wall and it was constructed. Then followed construction of more classrooms, furniture, toilets, better power connection, etc. and support to the children practising on the ground. Thanks to the efforts put in by DBA and coaches, the school’s basketball team won four tournaments in the recent past.As the children are showing good interest in academics, additional classes have been arranged for them and boys would be given snacks after school hours before they attend special classes. The teachers would conduct refresher classes for groups of students in their colonies before the examinations. Top officials and motivators would visit the school often to address the students.Sincerity of teachers and disciplined students made me take special interest in development of the schoolM. Raja BabuHead Master