http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/Schools-adopt-%E2%80%9Cwait-and-watch%E2%80%9D-policy/article13987049.ece

A day after the Aam Aadmi Party government decided to scrap management and all other quotas for admission to nursery, the association of private schools on Thursday decided to approach the Delhi High Court.Representatives from nearly 1,500 private unaided schools will meet the Action Committee of Private Unaided Schools on Friday to decide the future course of action on the matter, which is already sub judice.The association had moved the Court in 2014, after Delhi Lieutenant-Governor Najeeb Jung had notified the scrapping of quota. A Single Bench had granted autonomy to the schools to decide the quotas. The government had challenged the judgment seeking a stay before a Division Bench, but the matter is still pending. A hearing in the matter will come up on January 21. The association, however, is planning to seek an early hearing since the application procedure will be over by the time the Court gives its decision.Delhi State Public Schools’ Management Association president R.C. Jain said: “We will meet representatives from private schools on Friday to decide if we should seek an early hearing from the Court in this matter. If we wait till January 21, it will be too late. Application forms for nursery admission are being filled till January 22 only.”Meanwhile, schools are still adopting a “wait and watch” approach as most have not started complying with government orders to remove the option of management quota from their admission forms. PP International School is the only school to have complied with the order so far.The association expressed concern over how a change in the system will affect nursery admissions, as many parents have already applied to various schools.“Whatever be the decision of the Court, the admission process is definitely going to get affected. We cannot understand why the Cabinet has taken this decision in such hurry. It seems that the action of the government is motivated by vengeance in view of private unaided schools refusing to provide their buses to the government for implementation of the odd-even scheme,” Mr. Jain added.