http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/School-arts-festival-arrangements-reviewed/article14002686.ece

The arrangements for the 56th State schools arts festival were reviewed by Health Minister V.S. Sivakumar and Chief Secretary Jiji Thomson here on Saturday.Mr. Sivakumar who is also the organising committee chairman gave directions to officials to complete all work at the Putharikandam grounds, the main venue of the festival, before Monday afternoon.The Kerala Water Authority was told to ensure that distribution of drinking water was not affected. The city Corporation has been asked to make arrangements for water tanks.The Chief Secretary visited the Putharikandam grounds in the afternoon and inspected the stage and pandal and gave necessary directions to the organisers. Director of Public Instruction M.S. Jaya, who is also the festival general coordinator, briefed Mr. Thomson about the arrangements for the week-long cultural event.He also enquired if the work related to Operation Anantha at the grounds were posing a problem for the festival arrangements.He said the stage and pandal would be ready by Monday.Mr. Thomson and Ms. Jaya then headed to the Police Training Grounds where the food pandal is coming up. They inspected the pandal for the kitchen and the dining hall.They expressed satisfaction at the efforts being made to implement the green protocol at the festival.As part of the festival, a traffic training programme was organised at the Government Model Boys Higher Secondary School, Thycaud.The programme was inaugurated by Ms. Jaya.Traffic Police Assistant Commissioner Mohan Nair led the training.Leaders of autorickshaw and motor workers’ unions, drivers of school vehicles, SMV school’s select Student Police Cadets, National Service Scheme volunteers, took part in the programme.A rehearsal of the cultural procession to be taken out on Tuesday was also held at Carmel school, Vazhuthacaud.Procession committee convener Salu J.R. said it had been decided to give away awards for the best three schools taking part in the procession in two categories – government/aided and unaided.Trophies were also instituted for teachers’ training institutes that came first and second.