http://www.thehindu.com/features/magazine/School-of-rock/article14016003.ece

Suddenly, the auditorium resonated with music. The song, an unexpected response by a student to an attendance call by the teacher of a junior school for boys, immediately set feet tapping. Instinctively, the audience had become one with the spontaneous performers, syncing with the set, which was a classroom in a far-off village in Rajasthan.Interestingly transposing reality into a larger-than-life musical, India’s theatre icon Roysten Abel brought boys from an unusual Manganiyar classroom in Rajasthan right into the hearts of audiences in Ranga Shankara in Bengaluru.The play, the Manganiyar music, the boys who had not stepped on stage before, and Daevo Khan, the teacher of this musical tradition — together they all expelled entrenched beliefs that education is all about ABCs.Evoking the spirit of the Manganiyar Classroom on stage had been on Abel’s mind for about eight years. “I’d been wanting to do something with these musically talented children ever since our previous production ‘Manganiyar Seduction’, when Gayathri Krishna of the Bhoomija Foundation asked me if I could put a show of these young artists together,” says Abel. “It is one thing to just create a choir. But being a theatre director, you want to explore something more with the children. Eight years ago, I had met a few kids who were Manganiyar musicians and they were brilliant. But when I went back recently, I found that they had all become timid and lost that spark. Some of them were in Class 9 and 10, others had dropped out and were building their bodies, expanding their chests to join the Army.”Abel got the idea for ‘Manganiyar Classroom’ from this. He felt the need to do something about the issue of schooling vis-à-vis the community and clusters of artists. “I felt that one should have a different kind of schooling for them. You can’t have a homogeneous system of education, especially when you go to the villages where there are diverse people with different wisdoms of their own. Just imagine if the Manganiyars are going to be like you and me, what’s the point?” Abel realised that to portray India’s image globally, one had to help the singers and students become more extraordinary with their skills and not just remain traditional folk performers.Going further, Abel and his team are trying to set up an Alternate Education Institution. “We want to see this school come up, which will generate a lot of talent from where world-class musicians, performers and composers will emerge. We will also give them a regular education, help them study medicine or whatever else they wish.”Traditionally and spontaneously, these boys with Manganiyar roots from the villages around Jaisalmer render their folk music with a range and talent that befits master performers. Khan, their master both in real life and on stage, has been an integral part of the ‘Manganiyar Seduction’. Continuing the integration, he talks of how Abel wanted to stage the classroom with the younger Manganiyar musicians to keep pace with their talent. “Roysten feels that the Manganiyar children are god-gifted. So, I went to every village and every street where the Manganiyars live around Jaisalmer, my home district, and told them that they should come for an audition. Now, with a few runs in India, we are set for shows in London and Australia with around 30 boys. It is also the first time I’ve acted on stage,” beams Khan, who, with his larger than life tonal intensity, has sung for Bollywood, including for the film Highway.“Initially,” concedes Abel, “the selected boys did not have a vast repertoire. They had never done a play in their lives, most of them knew only one or two songs. So Khan, Dare Khan, who plays the kamayacha, and I decided on the songs for the production. Daevo went on to train them. The next time I met them, I went on to do small things with the kids related to the play and with Daevo too. It was the first time he was getting on stage to act. By the third session, the kids opened up.”Taking off into another world on the stage, these young Manganiyars have just swerved in a direction that will perhaps help them keep the songs of their forefathers alive. Says Abel, “In a way, this is the first time I am working with children and I love it. Everything has its own life and journey. I want to witness where this journey takes the ‘Manganiyar Classroom’. You see, everything falls in place when you are not trying too hard.”