http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/Schools-giving-points-to-%E2%80%98discriminatory%E2%80%99-criteria-like-profession-of-parents/article13984281.ece

Imagine your child not getting admission to nursery class at a prestigious private school in your neighbourhood just because you are a not a doctor or a civil services officer?While most parents rely on the “distance” criterion for admission to entry-level classes for their children, some schools in the Capital that are not giving any weightage to the “neighbourhood” criterion this year. Instead, they are giving points to “discriminatory” criteria like profession of parents. The neighbourhood criterion, the most common criteria across all schools that was given due weightage as per the Ganguly Committee recommendations to simplify and fine tune the admission process to nursery class, does not find a place in the admission criteria to prominent schools in the Capital, including Apeejay School in Saket and Pitampura, and Raghubir Singh Junior Modern School in Humayun Road.According to the admission forms of these schools, the criteria listed include alumni, girl child and parents’ job. Apeejay School has allotted 12 points for children whose parents or grandparents are qualified doctors, government servants or in the Armed forces. Similarly, RSJ Modern School is giving points for siblings and alumni for three generations.The Directorate of Education (DoE) had recently asked schools to develop and adopt clear, well defined, equitable, non-discriminatory, unambiguous and transparent criteria for admissions.A senior DoE official added: “We left it up to the schools to decide the criteria for admission. However, if we receive any complaints about schools coming up with discriminatory criteria, we will look into it.”Sumit Vohra, who runs a nursery admission portal, said: “The schools that have not allocated points for the neighbourhood criteria are not following the Ganguly Committee recommendations for nursery admissions, especially Apeejay School, which is also screening applicants based on very discriminatory points.”“The criteria are also being allotted for the creamy layer based on profession, which can easily give way to backdoor entry. Even Modern school has not given any points to distance and dynasty rule is being forced as points to alumni/to three or more generation alumni are given,” he added.“Is anyone from the Directorate of Education even keeping a check on whether admissions from any other ways are happening or not,” he asked.Another education activist said: “Allotting points on the basis of a parent’s job is very discriminatory. Schools should keep the most basic kind of criteria for admission like neighbourhood, sibling and others.”The schools, however, do not find anything wrong with this criteria and maintained that they are following all norms. Apeejay School (Pitampura) principal D.K. Bedi said: “We have followed all the norms while deciding the criteria for admission. The Ganguly committee recommendations were put in place to make the admission more systematic, but are not mandatory and hence it is not necessary to include the distance criteria.” He added that sometimes parents take advantage of the neighbourhood criteria and get fake rental agreements made just to secure an admission for their children.The nursery admission process for 27,000 seats in Delhi schools started on January 1 and will go on till March 31. While the last date of submitting the application forms is January 22, the first list will be out on February 22 followed by another on February 29.