http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Thiruvananthapuram/School-arts-fete-to-have-a-gala-opening/article13978232.ece

A group of 56 teachers will render the welcome song, while school students will present an audio-visual choreography with focus on the State capital’s heritage and unique arts at the inauguration of the 56th State school arts festival here on January 19.Chief Minister Oommen Chandy will open the festival at the main venue, Putharikandam grounds, at 5 p.m. Minister for Education P.K. Abdu Rabb will preside over the function.Attempts are on to rope in prominent personalities from the world of art and cinema to attend the function, besides Ministers, MLAs, and cultural leaders. A colourful procession will be taken out from the Martyrs Column in the afternoon. State Police Chief T.P. Senkumar will flag off the procession at 2 p.m. The procession will conclude at the Putharikandam grounds.The valedictory of the festival will be inaugurated by Leader of the Opposition V.S. Achuthanandan on January 25. As the festival is intended for students, they will play a prominent role in the inaugural and valedictory functions, the organisers said.With just over a fortnight left for the festival, venues besides the Putharikandam grounds have been finalised.After much back and forth, Priyadarsini Hall at Fort and N. Krishna Pillai memorial hall at Nandavanam have been dropped from the venues’ list.Earlier, Tagore Theatre and Senate Hall too had been removed from the prospective venues’ list by the festival organising committee.Work on the food pandal at the Police Training Grounds, Thycaud, has begun.The 30,000 sq ft pandal will be able to accommodate 3,000 students at a time. The festival dining hall will be inaugurated on January 16. A 250-member committee is overseeing the preparations related to food. It has set up a purchase committee to buy provisions and vegetables needed for the week-long festival.To increase awareness of the fete and drum up excitement among students in the district, the organisers have chalked out a programme ‘Melakkoru Naalikeram.’ Under the programme, children studying in schools in the 12 sub-districts in Thiruvananthapuram will contribute a coconut each to do their bit for the conduct of the festival.