http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Scions-indulge-in-war-of-words-on-Twitter/article14026535.ece

The heat, dust and noise, the way the visible environment around you is polluted and how existing civic or traffic rules are blatantly violated are common enough for citizens during an election campaign.And so is the way contesting candidates give up etiquette and slam opponents in the choicest of language too. Cut to the way social media too, that is occupying several peoples’ minds practically every minute, is chipping in during a campaign. Scions of the Chief Ministers K. Chandrasekhar Rao (Telangana) and K. Chandrababu Naidu (Andhra Pradesh) too, have been seen sniping at each other - physically and on cyber space.On Wednesday, addressing a meeting, K.T. Rama Rao, Minister for IT, and son of Mr. Rao, asked Mr. Naidu’s son, Nara Lokesh to strive for getting special status for AP. During his campaign, the younger Naidu had said that while he was a local himself, it was Mr. Rama Rao who was a non-local in Hyderabad. In response, Mr. Rama Rao advised Mr. Lokesh to concentrate on developing Amaravati, the new capital, instead of promising development for Hyderabad. If the TDP was taking credit for Hyderabad taking the cake for IT services, it was only because of the time and not because of the party or his father, he said, wondering if that were the case, who should take the credit for Bengaluru. On Thursday the scions’ war of words continued.Around noon on Thursday, Mr. Lokesh tweeted @KTRTRS thus. “Anasuya mistook me for you & fell in front of my vehicle in the tour as she has no other way of reaching you. She has a question. Where is her 2BHK flat that was promised? She & many others like her are waiting for your answer.” An hour later, K.T. Rama Rao tweeted back: “@naralokesh: Brother, Glad she understands that it is the State govt. and party in power that can make it happen. Will take care of her and many others like her too. Thanks for bringing it to my attention & good luck with the electioneering. May the better party win.”