http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Scientific-histories/article13984420.ece

From the discovery of the Big Bang to modern genetics, air travel, the atomic bomb and radar technology, the 20th Century was a watershed in enhancing mankind’s understanding and harnessing the power of science. UCL professor Jon Agar’s book, Science in the 20th Century, takes a look at some of the key discoveries and inventions that have impacted the world.In the city for a lecture series organised by the British council and IISER Pune on the history of science, he says, “Science is one of the most important areas that play a vital role in shaping the world in this time and age. In the lecture series, I will be talking about the history of science and its impact on day-to-day life.”Jon points out: “The development of the big sciences and the invention of the atomic bomb is one of the greatest achievements of the 20th Century. It is a prime example of the manner in which a series of developments in pure sciences had an impact on all aspects of human society.Another major discovery was Carl Woese’s mid-1970s discovery of Archaea, the third branch of the tree of life. It was a complete surprise. After centuries of natural history, it was only recently that the general shape of the descent of living organisms has been reliably mapped.”Jon contends that the book is not only a text of key inventions and discoveries. “It deals with the human element also and talks about the personal stories of the many people and teams that played a very important part in these discoveries. In any scientific breakthrough, the end result is one thread among a larger narrative of personal stories, relationships and rivalries.”War played a very important part in advancing scientific discoveries in the 20th Century. Jon points out, “Science, technology and warfare have been intertwined, perhaps especially so in that century. However, though it has been used for meeting violent goals, most technological advancements made during the Second World War and the Cold War era helped mankind in many endeavours, including our exploration of the moon and space. Radar is a really interesting case; all kinds of specialties from operational research to radio astronomy were pushed forward by scientists who had worked on radar and translated skills and wherewithal to others.”Jon is presently working on a project tracing the scientific contributions of former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. “She was a research chemist before joining politics. I want to explore her policies pertaining to science and the scientific community and the manner in which these policies have impacted us”Looking at the future of scientific research, Jon admits, “I am a historian of science and it’s a little difficult to forecast the future. I hope that science finds solutions to the impact of climate change. I think that we will also soon understand more about dark matter, something that scientists are working on at the moment.”