http://www.thehindu.com/sport/football/Season-set-to-kick-off-today/article13988570.ece

The glamour of the Indian Super League is over. But, for Indian footballers, the season has only just begun. On Saturday, defending champion Mohun Bagan will host newly-promoted Aizawl FC in the inaugural match of the 2015-16 I-League at Kolkata. In the other clash of the opening day, 2013-14 winners Bengaluru FC will travel to Goa to take on Salgaocar.Three teams — >Pune FC, Bharat FC and Royal Wahingdoh — pulled out of this season’s matches and, with Pune-based DSK Shivajians drafted in as the only replacement, this year’s competition will be fought between nine teams.Testing timesI-League CEO Sunanda Dhar admitted these were ‘testing times’ for Indian football and said there will be more focus on publicity and marketing this year. “We are trying to widen our reach by partnering with the media, especially through promo videos and a good presence in the digital media. Our budget is limited, but we are also trying to come to an agreement with a sports data management giant.”One of the most talked-about topics before the campaign has been the >fitness of the Indian players who haven’t had time to rest following the ISL and SAFF Cup. Indian stars Sandesh Jhingan, Cavin Lobo, Anas Edathodika and Robin Singh are all struggling with injuries that could rule them out of the opening weekend.Japanese-born Indian player Arata Izumi, who will play for Mumbai FC this year, isn’t too worried about the exhaustion. “This is just the right amount of football, I think. The sport is starting to catch on; people are following it more than ever... this is precisely how it should be!“We need to focus on our fitness, be prepared to work hard, and make the most of this opportunity,” said the midfielder, who scored five goals for Atletico de Kolkata in the ISL.Bengaluru FC coach Ashley Westwood said: “The games (ISL) were good, but now I am looking forward to working with the players again, bringing them back to our system and putting on a good performance in the I-League.”Future in doubtThe future of the I-League may be in doubt, with the rising popularity of the ISL. Royal Wahingdoh general manager Nicolas Jyrwa had cited lack of “clarity on the future of the I-League” as one of the reasons for pulling out. But the doubts haven’t dented the spirit of the nine teams, all vying for the top spot.Saturday’s schedule: Mohun Bagan vs Aizawl FC (4.30 p.m.); Salgaocar vs Bengaluru FC (7 p.m.).