http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Secret-visits-of-politicos/article13979958.ece

The Yettinahole project seems to have compelled two former Chief Ministers of the State, Congress MP M. Veerappa Moily and Union Law Minister D.V. Sadananda Gowda, both hailing from Dakshina Kannada district, to visit their home turf rather surreptitiously.While the drinking water project — which involves diverting Netravati — has been widely opposed in Dakshina Kannada, the two politicians have played a role in its inception. Mr. Moily strongly supports the project, and Mr. Gowda is the one who gave administrative approval for it. On December 30, there was no prior intimation about Mr. Moily’s visit to the Congress office to participate in the victory of MLC candidate K. Pratapchandra Shetty. Secrecy was maintained about Mr. Gowda’s visit to Puttur on January 1 too.But Mr. Gowda could not escape the media. When cornered, he claimed that he was not aware about a delegation led by Nalin Kumar Kateel, MP from Dakshina Kannada, meeting Prakash Javadekar, Union Minister for Environment, Forest and Climate Change, and Uma Bharati, Union Minister for Water Resources, in New Delhi on December 17 to urge them to not give forest clearance to the project.Brothers in HouseIt appears that the BJP has set a new tradition in hereditary politics by ensuring the presence of brothers in either Houses of the legislature.In the last Assembly, Karunakar Reddy and Janardhan Reddy adorned the Legislative Assembly and the Legislative Council, respectively, as BJP members. The latest entry is the Shettar brothers, Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Jagadish Shettar and his younger brother Pradeep Shettar, who got elected to the council from Dharwad local authorities’ constituency.After Ballari, it is now the turn of Dharwad to have two brothers as its representatives in the Upper and as well as Lower Houses.Boomerang effectLeader of the Opposition in the Legislative Council K.S. Eshwarappa had announced, in the heat of election campaign, that he would take sanyas from public life if Congress bagged “even one seat more” than his party. With his penchant for hyperbole, he had said that was a challenge to the Congress. The results, of course, dashed the high hopes of the BJP, which bagged just six seats. Even as results were trickling in, television reporters started haranguing Mr. Eshwarappa on what his retirement plans were, playing old footages of his fiery statement.Without batting an eyelid, a very seasoned Mr. Eshwarappa said the question of taking sanyas from public life does not arise because the Congress had, in the first place, failed to accept the challenge. “I would have taken sanyas, of course, if the CM had accepted my challenge,” he said.One post, 2 officersFor a couple of days, the staff in the office of the APMC secretary in Hassan were clueless as to who their boss was. The Agriculture Marketing Department had appointed two secretaries for one post.S.H. Lakshme Gowda, on deputation from the Social Welfare Department, had been continuing in the post since February 2015, while S.N. Saraswathi, another officer, was posted to the same post with promotion in June 2015. Mr. Gowda moved the Karnataka Administrative Tribunal and got a stay, following which Ms. Saraswathi was transferred to Mudigere. She moved the KAT and succeeded to get a stay for her transfer. With the KAT orders in hand, she reported to duty on December 27, when Mr. Gowda was on leave. For the next two-three days, both the officers were on duty. Mr. Gowda said that he had no directions from the senior officers to vacate the post. Whoever reached the office early in the day would occupy the designated chair, while the other had no choice but to occupy another chair in the same room. As this was reported in media, a senior officer of the department resolved the matter on December 31. Ms. Saraswathi, who is left with only two years’ service, wishes to complete it in her hometown, Hassan. However, she has been asked to report to head office with KAT order.Raviprasad Kamila,N. Dinesh Nayak,Bageshree S., andSathish G.T.