http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/Security-tightened-for-Republic-Day-celebrations/article14018541.ece

After a country-wide alert in wake of Pathankot terror attack and reported threat by the Islamic State, security has been stepped up across Odisha for this year’s Republic Day celebrations.Director General of Police K. B. Singh and his senior colleagues took stock of the preparedness for the State-level function to be held at Mahatma Gandhi Marg here on Tuesday next.Taking salute at the final rehearsal of parade and cultural shows here on Sunday, Mr. Singh said: “In view of the alert received from the Intelligence Bureau, we have directed all districts and authorities heading railway stations and bus terminals to remain vigilant. A total of 109 contingents would walk down along MG Marg here.”The Commissionerate Police have four-tier security arrangement in place for Republic Day celebration. “We have already intensified patrolling in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack. During night, blockades have been set up for checking incoming and outgoing vehicles,” said R. P. Sharma, Commissioner of Police.Random checking of individuals and vehicles had already been initiated at different sensitive places, he said. “Buildings and high rises near the venue have been sanitised. A total 22 platoons of police will be deployed. Security personnel have been asked to maintain vigil to thwart any act of sabotage,” Mr. Sharma said.Apart from this, quick reaction teams and anti-terrorist squads have been kept ready.On Sunday, different contingents, cultural troupes and students conducted full dress rehearsal. A team from the city-based Maharshi College will perform a daredevil show by driving nine bikes and scooters carrying 52 students on the Mahatma Gandhi Marg. Children aged between 5 and 12 will showcase their skating skills. Under cultural category, tiger dance and tribal folk dance will be performed by groups drawn from different districts. In southern Odisha districts, special care has been taken to meet security threat from Left wing extremists. While government S. C. Jamir will hoist the Tricolour at Bhubaneswar, Chief Minister will be the chief guest at Cuttack.