http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/Security-stepped-up-for-Modi-and-Hollande%E2%80%99s-Gurgaon-visit/article14018264.ece

In view of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and France President François Hollande’s visit to the Millennium City on January 25, elaborate security arrangements have been made across the city. The policemen could be seen in every nook and corner of the city on Saturday evening turning it virtually into a fortress.“The resources from across the State have been used and pressed into service for the security of the visiting dignitaries. It is for the first time that drones are being used to keep an eye in and around the venue. Traffic advisory has also been issued for the convenience of the commuters. We have been distributing pamphlets to motorists on the Gurgaon-Faridabad Road for the past five days to make them aware of traffic restrictions on Monday in view of the visit,” said Gurgaon Police Commissioner Navdeep Virk. Mr. Modi and Mr. Hollande would jointly inaugurate the Interim Secretariat of the International Solar Alliance (ISA) and also lay the foundation stone of the ISA building in the National Institute of Solar Energy (NISE), Gurgaon.All the 23 Station House Officers of as many territorial police stations, Deputy Commissioners of Police of three zones, all Assistant Commissioners of Police and the Crime Branches staff are deployed for the security. More than a thousand policemen are likely to be deployed in and around the venue and along the route. While the local police have been deployed along the route and at the venue, the security of the dignitaries has been taken over by the National Security Guards. The traffic on the Mehrauli-Gurgaon Road and Gurgaon-Faridabad route will be disrupted due to the programme. Issuing a traffic advisory, the Gurgaon Police has advised the traffic coming from the direction of MDI Chowk and headed towards Mehrauli and Faridabad to take Udyog Vihar-Shankar Chowk-Cyber City route. Also, those going towards Faridabad from Rajiv Chowk will have to take Badshahpur-Sohna route. No heavy vehicles would be allowed on the National Highway-8 on January 25. In view of the traffic restrictions, several schools, such as The Heritage and Shiv Nadar have curtailed their school hours while many have declared it a holiday.“In view of the traffic advisory, the school dispersal is being preponed by one hour on January 25,” said a message from The Heritage School authorities to the parents. Also, many social functions scheduled on Sunday have been cancelled. “We had organised a blood donation camp at Metropolis Mall, but the mall authorities did not allow us to go ahead with the programme despite permission from the administration. A programme on female foeticide had to be cancelled at the eleventh hour due to non-availability of the police,” said social activist Kuldeep Jhangu.It is for the first time that drones are being used to keep an eye in and around the venue