http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Thiruvananthapuram/Seeds-of-trouble-in-Congress/article13989765.ece

A new controversy appears to be brewing in the Congress over paddy conservation rules, threatening the unity stitched up by the troika that leads the party in the State.The row revolves around a budget proposal to regularise conversion of paddy fields prior to the passage of the Kerala Paddy and Wetlands Conservation Act, 2008. The budget proposal, made as a revenue mobilisation measure, was passed as part of the Finance Bill. The proposal envisages regularisation of paddy field conversion on the payment of a fee equivalent to 25 per cent of the fair value of land in the locality.The implications of the proposal came to light only in November, leading to Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president V.M. Sudheeran’s intervention. He promptly set up a subcommittee headed by KPCC vice president V.D. Satheeshan to examine the implications of the amendments and the rules framed under them.The committee, in its report, said the amendments and the rules were contradictory and would not stand the scrutiny of courts.The committee expressed the fears that the clauses would be misused for large-scale conversion of paddy fields. The committee sought its explanation from Revenue Minister Adoor Prakash, who gave his version about the developments.The entire issue hit a trough when the Revenue Department issued a notification brining the rules into force.As far as Congress politics is concerned, the controversy has put the party and the government on opposite poles. The subcommittee has recommended further changes to the paddy conservation laws to restore the earlier position. But this would require a political decision at the United Democratic Front (UDF) level.The UDF has taken the view that the amendments were mooted as far back as the Left Democratic Front’s rule and the regularisation of conversion of paddy fields prior to 2008 had become imperative for the State’s development when land was scarce to come by.Mr. Sudheeran is known for his hard positions on environmental issues, while Mr. Chandy and his team are keen on keeping the State on a development mode. Senior leaders do not rule out the kind of standoff witnessed during the heights of the row over the formulation of the liquor policy.