http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Service-tax-waiver-for-LIC-premieum-sought/article13984041.ece

Speakers at the 7th southern-level conference of the Life Insurance Agents Federation of India (LIAFI) emphasised the need for giving new fillip to the Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) by removing service tax and bringing transparency in its overall operation with the help of regular audit through the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG).Nearly 1,500 members from different parts of southern districts took part in the conference which was addressed by Nellore MP Rajamohan Reddy, MLAs Kotamreddy Sridhar Reddy, P. Anilkumar Yadav, LIAFI All India secretary general N. Gajapathi Rao and zonal secretary B. Markandeyulu.Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Rajamohan Reddy said that over the past two years, the LIC’s fortunes were on the declining trend and it was time that this organisation should be filled with new energy without allowing any further deterioration.Stating that no other public undertaking delivered such wonderful services to the government, Mr. Rajamohan Reddy said that the LICF was giving loans to the Central and State governments and also local bodies to the tune of Rs. 12 lakh crore. The present government at the Centre proposed execution of pending projects in the railways worth Rs. 5 lakh crore by taking loan from the LIC, he added.Crucial roleMr. Gajapathi Rao said that the policy holders were playing a crucial role for the growth of the LIC as an organisation and it was important that they should be given higher bonus even if it meant reduction in the expenditure in the organisation.“The foreign companies are giving higher bonus though they have not come to the break-even position as yet,” he observed.Mr. Rao asserted that it would be possible to give 25 to 30 per cent higher bonus to the policy holders if the irregularities were checked in the LIC. For this, the entire organisation should be audited by the CAG, he added.About 1,500 members takepart in southern conferenceof LIAFI