http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/Service-oriented-politics-is-need-of-the-hour/article14022592.ece

Revenue Minister V. Srinivas Prasad has said that service-oriented politics and dedicated service by the bureaucracy are the need of the hour for the republic nature of Indian Constitution to be completely realised.Delivering the Republic Day address at Torch Light Parade Grounds in Bannimantap here on Tuesday, Mr. Prasad, who is also Minister in-charge of the district, regretted that equality and social justice had continued to elude India even 66 years after its Constitution was brought into force.Lamenting the widening gap between the haves and have nots in the society, Mr. Prasad blamed the capitalists and the corruption plaguing the system among the various vices.For India to become a complete republic, Mr. Prasad identified five points, including practice of service-oriented politics and discharge of duties with dedication by the bureaucracy. Service-oriented politics is very necessary, he said, adding that people’s representatives should honestly work for the progress of the nation in the constituencies they had chosen. Similarly, he said officials of the Central and State government should lay more emphasis on social justice and discharge their duties with dedication.The other aspects identified by the Minister included respecting rule of law, which would prevent breach of peace, scams, oppression, and corruption plaguing the country, using youth power for the development of the nation and promoting patriotism and unity in diversity. Mr. Prasad recalled B.R. Ambedkar’s words when India became a republic in 1950 that there was a threat to political democracy if inequality in socio-economic spheres is not removed.Lamenting that India had still not been able to eliminate untouchability, he said there was a need for social concern, commitment and patriotism if the scourge is to be rooted out of the society.The Minister also pointed out that secularism was one of the basic features of the Constitution and “secularisation” of the educational and social spheres had become inevitable for the country to move forward.Earlier, Mr. Prasad hoisted the national flag, took the salute and inspected a guard of honour.