http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Set-for-Sankranti-revelry/article13988527.ece

Though Makara Sankrati is still a few days away, Nirvana near Chilkur is ringing it in a few days earlier, as like-minded people get together for ‘Sankranti Utsav’ on January 10. Makara Sankranti marks the beginning of a new phase. The aim of ‘Sankranti Utsav’ is to bring in a different approach to celebrating Sankranti.“Once people enter the gates of Nirvana, the first condition is that there will be no talk of money or business. One has to connect with nature and celebrate in the spirit of togetherness,” explains Leela Kumar of Nirvana. Hailing from Varahapuram village, her inspiration is her veterinary doctor father, who was helpful by nature and believed in simple living.Sankranti Utsav will see village life being recreated in Nirvana. The Utsav begins at 11 am and the event will include a mix of games and activities. Students of Sanskriti School and Future Kids will perform and also participate in the celebrations. “There is no entry fee and each one can contribute and participate in the activities,” says Leela and adds, “We rarely see a Haridasu or a Gangireddu in the city. This is an attempt to introduce children to village life and show how Sankranti is celebrated there .”Leela reminisces of how in her childhood, the Haridasu got so much rice as alms from everyone in the village, that it sufficed him the whole year.She shares the experiences of the fete celebrated last year and the onus is on ‘Mana Aatalu’ (Our games) and ‘Mana Vantalu’ (Our dishes). “Mana Aatalu will include games like vamana gunta, golilu, vaikunta paali, gavvalu and pachisi. And, Mana vantalu will include traditional dishes that have been forgotten in modern lifestyle,” she adds.Another team member Rambabu affirms Nirvana is a platform for humanity. “Artistes will perform and showcase the folk dance forms. There will also be an indigenous display of old instruments. Food, folk arts and culture is the high point here. Sankranti is a festival of thanksgiving to to mother nature,” he explains.The setting is rural and Leela emphasises how togetherness brings about positivity. “Nirvana was abuzz with Sankranti revelry last year. Participants came together like one big family. If some of them cut vegetables, some cooked special delicacies and others served. The event focused on community celebrations and showed how there is more joy when people come together and celebrate a festival.”