http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Several-issues-come-up-for-discussion-at-Maneka-party-workers-interaction/article13983433.ece

From the issue of failure of the local cadre in taking the good work done by the Narendra Modi-led National Democratic Alliance government at the Centre to the people to the action against the BJP’s expelled leader Kirti Azad, to the long-pending Kalasa Banduri Nala issue… these and several other issues came up for discussion during the interaction of Union Minister for Woman and Child Development Maneka Gandhi with the party workers here on Monday.The interaction took place after the Union Minister listed out what the BJP government had done so far after coming to power during her speech on the BJP’s good governance and the Congress’ non-cooperation in the path of development here on Monday.After the Union Minister ended her speech on how the BJP government had improved its relationship with the neighbouring countries and provided a status report on inflation, oil prices and other issues, party workers from Hubballi-Dharwad and a few citizens sought her reaction on various issues.After cutting short attempts to praise her for participating in the interaction, Ms. Maneka Gandhi asked the official accompanying her to note down some of the issues raised by the participants, including the reluctance of bankers to extensively implement the Mudra scheme, the discrimination in wages for men and women and issues such as EPS pensioners not getting the full Rs. 1,000 announced by the Prime Minister.To a query on whether the BJP leaders themselves had given scope for the Opposition parties to criticise the party by expelling leader Kirti Azad, the Minister said that she would bring it the notice of Mr. Modi.When another participant pointed out the continued agitation of farmers on the Kalasa Banduri Nala issue, Ms. Maneka Gandhi said, “You have got an able MP Pralhad Joshi. He raises several issues in Parliament. You should ask him to also raise the issue in Parliament.”EmbarrassmentThe sparse attendance of party workers at the function put the local leaders to embarrassment as when the Union Minister arrived, only a quarter of the auditorium had been occupied.As the organisers had failed to inform about the revised timings, many of the participants arrived when the Union Minister was winding up her talk.Earlier, BJP State vice-president M. Nagaraj briefed about the programme and listed out the various scams of the previous United Progressive Alliance government. BJP urban district president Lingaraj Patil and Mayor Ashwini Majjagi were present.