http://www.thehindu.com/sci-tech/Several-compounds-show-promise-against-MDR-TB/article13990289.ece

In years to come, a new drug to overcome the problem of multi-drug resistant TB (MDR-TB) could become a reality if the promising results obtained at the laboratory level remain true in clinical trials too.Scientists screening thousands of natural and synthetic compounds at the National Mol Bank at the Indian Institute of Chemical Technology, Hyderabad have identified hits (compounds found to be active at laboratory level) for TB, cancers, asthma and central nervous system disorders. The highly automated compound storage and retrieval facility can store 1.6 million samples and has currently more than 30,000 pure compounds.As part of supplementing drug discovery efforts, the scientists have screened around 10,000 compounds for TB and identified 281 hits. Of them, 11 compounds, which are not related to any of the existing anti-TB drugs, have shown promising results in experiments at cellular level on MDR-TB bacteria. “We will make several analogues to these compounds and look at the pathway they are following for achieving inhibitory activity”, said Dr. P. Srihari, Principal Scientist, IICT.Dr. Prathama Mainkar, Scientist at IICT, said: “We know it is inhibiting Mycobacterium tuberculosis. We want to find out the pathway. Then we can deliver the drug”, she added. After narrowing down to the right compound, it would take two to three years to complete human trials, said Dr. Prathama. After completing pre-clinical trials, IICT would seek collaboration for clinical trials. In the case of cancer, three compounds to treat leukaemia acted efficaciously in tests conducted on cancer cell lines in mice. The scientists now plan to repeat the studies in dogs and take up pre-clinical trials. Promising results were found with two other molecules in regard to renal cancer. “We plan to go for clinical trials in collaboration with another institution in the next two years”, Dr. Prathama said.Another couple of compounds have shown to strengthen neurons in experiments conducted in zebra fish and mice models at the laboratory level. Interestingly, the compounds also passed the crucial blood-brain barrier and further studies were being carried out in collaboration with the University of Texas and ETH, Zurich. Eventually, these compounds could help in developing drugs for treatment of dementia and Alzheimer’s disease.IICT and Indian Institute of Chemical Biology, Kolkata filed patents for two other compounds which proved to be effective against asthma; collaborative studies were conducted by the two institutions.