http://www.thehindu.com/sport/other-sports/Sharath-Kamal-will-bolster-PSPB-team/article13980963.ece

Plastic seamless balls will be used for the first time during the 77th senior National and inter-state table tennis championships that will get under way at the Kotla Vijay Bhaskara Reddy indoor stadium on Tuesday.In conformity with recent International Table Tennis Federation (ITTF) stipulations, they will replace the celluloid ones that have been in use for decades.The big draw for this edition will be A. Sharath Kamal. The champion paddler will make his appearance in the country’s premier competition after two years, which is bound to bolster the already intimidating Petroleum Sports Promotion Board (PSPB) men’s team.Backing the Chennai virtuoso will be current National champion Soumyajit Ghosh, Anthony Amalraj, Harmeet Desai and G. Sathiyan, making the quintet quite hard to beat.The Petroleum squad’s stranglehold on the Barna Ballack Cup may be difficult if not impossible to shake off. Some challenge can come however from within. Abhishek Yadav and Sudhanshu Grover, who couldn’t crack the PSPB top five, will represent Rajasthan. Some quality opposition could also emerge from regulars in the institutional teams, unable to make their elites, spilling over into the state sides. The Railway trio of Ravindra Kotiyan, Anirban Nandi and Souvik Kar cannot be taken lightly.Anirban Ghosh, Arjun Ghosh and Rohnit Bhanja form a youthful yet tough threesome for West Bengal. R. Abhishek, Sushmit Sriram, Nikhil Suresh and Anand Raj Rajan should lend teeth to Tamil Nadu’s campaign.MenacingOn the distaff side, PSPB women look as menacing as their men. Their loss of the Jayalakshmi Cup in Raipur a few years ago now appears to be a mere lapse. The lineup of Manika Batra, Mouma Das, Ankita Das, K. Shamini and Pooja Sahasrabudhe can look as threatening as ever.Likely to throw the gauntlet is West Bengal, comprising Mousi Paul, Ayhika Mukherjee, Krittwika Sinha Roy and Railways tactician Anindita Chakraborty.