http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Sharanprakash-Patil-assumes-charge-as-HKRDB-chairman/article14025701.ece

Minister of State for Medical Education Sharanprakash Patil on Thursday assumed charge as chairman of the reconstituted Hyderabad Karnataka Region Development Board (HKRDB), which has statutory powers after the amendment to Article 371.Regional Commissioner and Secretary of HKRDB Amlan Aditya Biswas and senior Congress leaders and legislators, including two-time MP and former chairman of the Central Haj Committee Iqbal Ahmed Saradgi, Parliamentary Secretary to Chief Minister Umesh Jadav, Priyank Kharge, Ajay Singh, both MLAs, District Congress Committee president Baganagouda Patil Sunkanur and the former MLC Allamprabhu Patil were present when Dr. Patil formally took charge of the HKRDB post.However, the absence at the function of the former chairman of the HKRDB and Municipal Administration Minister Qamarul Islam, who was very much present in Kalaburagi, raised many an eyebrow.Dr. Patil made light of the absence of Mr. Qamarul Islam and said that he had spoken to Mr. Qamarul Islam on Wednesday night and sought his blessings and cooperation for achieving the targeted development of the Hyderabad Karnataka region. He said that Mr. Qamarul Islam could not come as he was resting after attending a “Qawali” in the city which went into the early hours of Thursday. “Nothing more should be read into the absence of Mr. Qamarul Islam,” he said.However, in a late development, Mr. Qamarul Islam visited the HKRDB and felicitated Dr. Patil.Dr. Patil clarified that the change in guard at the HKRDB was a routine matter and Mr. Qamarul Islam had demitted office after completing his term of two years as per the rules of the HKRDB. The chairman of HKRDB is appointed on rotation basis and one of the qualifications prescribed for appointment to that post was that he should be the district in-charge Minister of any of the one districts in the Hyderabad Karnataka region.