http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Sharwanand-at-peace-with-his-career/article13994095.ece

Hyderabad: Sharwanand has come a long way in the industry despite not having a godfather to strategise his career. He began his foray with small roles in at least half a dozen films before he bagged offers as a hero. Sixteen films in a span of eight years with just one or two bad films is a very decent repertoire.Does it matter to him that his films were never spearheaded by top league directors? He is quick t respond, “I’ve never been tempted to work with big directors; honestly no one has ever approached me. I’m just accepting what is coming to me and luckily all have worked. My waiting period is long but I always got a good director. I am a very satisfied man. I might not have earned remuneration like other artistes but if people are going to a film presuming it would be a good one merely because I am in it, then it is an Oscar to me. I never cashed in on my success and did only two films at a time. Producers have been hiking my remuneration without asking. No one works towards becoming a star. Stardom is given by people. I am an actor but some day if people trust my films I will be a star.”His film Express Raja directed by Merlapaka Gandhi is releasing on Sankranti. Actor Brahmaji called him and said he heard the script and wanted him to listen to it. There is an ensemble cast of comedians and Sharwanand agreed to be a part of the film as each character had a unique identity. He observes, “It is a hilarious story with comedy coming out of situations. This time I wanted to do an entertainer, in a comedy genre. I always see how much kick I get out of listening to a story and judging my capacity to entertain the audiences. I want to grow and evolve and with every film and every director, I am discovering a part of myself.”People have realised that Sharwanand can dance too with Run Raja Run and the actor remarks, “Earlier too I did a bit of dancing but was awkward, but now I am enjoying even that. Success didn’t happen overnight, people have been noticing the films I chose to work in. It took me almost 13 years to make it but ranking doesn’t rattle me. I am not waiting for big things. I will be happy not doing sub-standard work, I will never be irresponsible,” he says firmly.There is an ensemble cast of comedians and Sharwanand agreed to be a part of the film as each character had a unique identity