http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Shot-in-Uganda-screened-at-Varkala/article14006786.ece

Sweden-based journalist and documentary film-maker Anna Bohlmark has chosen Varkala for the Asian launch of her 24-minute film The Fog of Bwindi , which highlights the plight of the Batwa Pygmies of Uganda who were ‘evicted’ from the Bwindi forests in 1991 to create a national park for the conservation of mountain gorillas.Ms. Bohlmark told The Hindu that she chose Varkala because she had always felt ‘married’ to the place. A group of Varkala-based cultural and eco activists have made arrangements for the launch on January 19.The film will also be screened at the 8 Point Art Cafe in Kollam shortly. “The gorilla population has gone up from 336 in 1991 to 880 plus now. But the Batwas have been reduced to landless squatters, made to work on private farmlands, with hooch as the prime wage for men. They were chased out of their houses,” she said.She said the Batwas were prohibited from returning to their homeland where their ancestors had lived for thousands of years.While the park is now a renowned money-spinning tourism destination, the Batwas are living outside the forest in penury. The change in lifestyle has made them alcoholics, she said. The Batwas are paid only when they perform their traditional dances for the tourists at the national park. The documentary was released at Stockholm and then in Italy. “I am hopeful it will improve the lot of an ethnic group that enjoyed good food and a disciplined life for centuries in the forest.”Ms. Bohlmark also wants to do a story on organic vegetable farming in the State for a Swedish magazine. The film-maker, brought up in Cuba, said V.S. Achuthanandan was the living Communist she admired the most. “I even like his looks,” she said, adding that she was eager to make a documentary film on him. She said she was making arrangements “to meet VS later this week.”The 24-minute film highlights the plight of the Batwa Pygmies of Uganda who were ‘evicted’ from the Bwindi forests to create a national park for the conservation of mountain gorilla