http://www.thehindu.com/entertainment/Showrunner-Steven-Moffat-quits-%E2%80%98Doctor-Who%E2%80%99/article14015880.ece

Steven Moffat will step down as head writer and executive producer of British sci—fi series .Doctor Who after the tenth season.BBC announced it on Friday, January 22 with a tweet on the show’s official account,.“Steven Moffat will step down as Head Writer & Exec Producer after S10... Chris Chibnall to take over!” read the tweet.Chibnall, who created British hit crime drama series Broadchurch, has been writing for “Doctor Who” since 2007. He will take over as showrunner beginning with Season 11.“ Doctor Who is the ultimate BBC program: bold, unique, vastly entertaining, and adored all around the world. So it’s a privilege and a joy to be the next curator of this funny, scary, and emotional family drama,” Chibnall said in a statement.“I’ve loved Doctor Who since I was 4 years old, and I’m relishing the thought of working with the exceptional team at BBC Wales to create new characters, creatures and worlds for the Doctor to explore. Steven’s achieved the impossible by continually expanding Doctor Who’s creative ambition, while growing its global popularity. He’s been a dazzling and daring showrunner, and hearing his plans and stories for 2017, it’s clear he’ll be going out with a bang. Just to make my life difficult.”Moffat joined the show in 2005 and has been at the helm since 2010, replacing Russell T. Davies, who departed at the time.He’s currently working on scripts for the tenth season, which is slated to premiere in 2017 and will be preceded by a Christmas special later this year.“Feels odd to be talking about leaving when I’m just starting work on the scripts for season 10, but the fact is my timey-wimey is running out,” Moffat said of his departure.“While Chris is doing his last run of Broadchurch, I’ll be finishing up on the best job in the universe and keeping the TARDIS warm for him. It took a lot of gin and tonic to talk him into this, but I am beyond delighted that one of the true stars of British Television drama will be taking the Time Lord even further into the future.”