http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/Showcasing-the-avant-garde-of-modern-Indian-art/article14023720.ece

With the India Art Fair turning the Capital into the place to be for enjoying some of the best art from across the world, a number of galleries in the city are organising collateral shows to showcase their impressive collections. In celebration of its 60th anniversary Kumar Art Gallery is showcasing a collection of rarely seen, illustrious works by Indian modern masters.The group show titled ‘Celebration’ includes around 45 paintings by modern masters like F.N Souza, MF Husain, S.H Raza, Ram Kumar, Satish Gujral, Krishen Khanna, K.H Ara, K.S Kulkarni, G R Santosh, B. Prabha, Sohan Qadri, A. Ramachandran, Jamini Roy, Ramkinkar Baij, Prodosh Das Gupta, N.S Bendre, K.G. Subramanyan, J. Swaminathan, Rameshwar Broota, J. Sultan Ali and Paresh Maity.Accompanying the exhibition is a comprehensive book of 200 pages that not only includes artworks from the show and astute essays by art critic Keshav Malik, but also archives some of the early shows of the modern masters at Kumar Gallery in the 1950’s and 60’s and most candid images of bonhomie amongst Indian artists, critics, and their mentors.Captured at various events over the last six decades, these images in the book serve both as visual documentation of historical importance as well as reflect on the evolution and growth of modern Indian art.Speaking about the show, Sunit Kumar of the gallery says “This is the sixth edition of the ‘Celebration’ show but this time, the emphasis is on modern masters whose aesthetic merit is not only publicly acknowledged but who are also academically most sound, the true avant-garde of Indian modern art”.The earliest work in the show is a 1938 oil on canvas by Ram Kinkar Baij titled Toilet and the works trace their way through the years with a 1940s Jamini Roy depicting the finesse of his folk-based lines in a tempera work titled Man with Hookah. Some of the other highlights of the show are a 1996 Rameshwar Broota titled Scripted in Time, a 1984 acrylic on canvas titled Radha in Vrindavan by KS Kulkarni, and a work titled The Foreman from 1961 by F. N Souza. The show also includes never-seen-before works by MF Husain (a self portrait 1969), Paysage (1958) by S.H Raza, rarely seen impastos on paper by Sohan Qadri and an oil on canvas titled To The Market(1961) by N.S. Bendre.The show will be on at 56, Sunder Nagar, New Delhi, till February 5.