http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/fashion/Short-cuts-and-some-sass/article14026762.ece

“I think every woman should go short at least once in her lifetime. Once your stylist identifies the right short haircut for you, you can’t go wrong if you know how to maintain and style it right,” declares Adhuna Akhtar, Founder and Creative Director of BBlunt Salons. Adhuna works with many celebrities and herself sports a stylishly short hairstyle. “There are several variations of ‘short’ hairstyles that are determined as per one’s personality, face shape, body proportion, hair type and texture. From the classic ‘bob’ to a ‘pixie’ and everything in between — the options for one to consider are immense. There’s the classic bob. Then there are variations to it, like the graduated bob, the wavy bob to a long bob... A deconstructed pixie with volume on top is also a trend that’s picking up. Again, pick the one that best suits your personality, lifestyle, face shape, body proportion, hair type and texture,” she advises.“2015 was undoubtedly the Year of the Bob, with many leading ladies, in Hollywood and Bollywood alike, trading their long locks for a short crop, looking like a million bucks! The look became quite the global rage. The latest to join the bandwagon was Kangana Ranaut. The cut we chose for her does complete justice to her uber-stylish, unconventional personality,” Adhuna says. Not just celebrities. Uma Maheshwari, Style Director, Toni and Guy, Chennai, says, “We were surprised at how many women wanted to go really short in 2015.”Uma, too, pooh poohs the myth that short hair suits only a certain kind of a face. “It is not about the shape of the face. It is about the personality. If I feel a woman can carry off a certain haircut, I ask her to go for it, irrespective of whether she has a round face or a square one. She can have bangs if she wants, or not. It is all about her style, her confidence and her persona.”“One is never too old, too fat, too thin or too young to have a short haircut,” says P. Jagdish, Salon Director, Page 3. So lay all your ‘should-I-should-I-not’ dithering to rest and get snippy. Jagdish says he always tries to learn more about his clients’ lifestyle and profession, and advises them accordingly. Go for it, he says, but first recommends a heart-to-heart with the stylist. “Discuss the pros and cons and keep an open mind. The best way to explain what you want and avoid disappointment is to show your stylist a picture, so that both you and he are sure that you are talking about the same thing,” he says. The stylist will tell you if that cut will work with your hair texture and suggest modifications. “Every hairstyle can be customised according to your face, no matter what shape it is,” he says.“Go short if you are worried about thinning hair, frizzy hair or want to stop colouring,” he adds. And once you have decided and cleared all your doubts and fears, go ahead. And be prepared for a lot of reactions,” he laughs. Getting a short cut adds volume to thinning hair, and if you want to stop colouring, this is the quickest way to get rid of the coloured half of the hair, instead of waiting forever to let it grow out completely, he says.Uma finds that a lot of older women are going for really short pixie cuts. “Many of them are opting to go colour-free. I guess it is because they want something low-maintenance. And these cuts make women look younger. The salt-and-pepper look is gaining popularity,” she says.Both Uma and Jagdish believe that the biggest thing going for short hair is how little you have to do with it. “It needs no fuss and it is easy to style. You don’t even have to blow-dry it,” she says. If he is forced to pick, Jagdish says he loves the idea of someone with curly or wavy hair going short. “The just-out-of-bed look is in. With curly hair, it looks bold, and all you have to do is to wash your hair, scrunch it and leave it. Rather than straight hair which lies rather flat, curly or wavy hair has movement and looks bold,” he says. And if you want, colour your short hair; it will add definition to it.“It is much more fun working with short hair,” agrees Adhuna. “I’ve always worn my hair short; it suits me better. The haircuts and styles I choose for myself are inspired by the 60s bob, and of course, my mood.”To keep the short haircut looking smart, the stylists suggest it should be trimmed once in four to eight weeks. Uma adds, “And if you ever want to grow out your hair, continue to trim it, but maybe once in three to four months, and a very little bit. This way, the hair will grow out well and remain healthy.” Adhuna says there is a range of hair extensions available, in case you suddenly crave long hair! “But, I love how the trend of women experimenting with shorter lengths is picking up internationally. The hassle-free, chic bob has been my all-time favourite — add texture, wear it sleek and straight, or opt for a wavy dishevelled ‘wob’ — either way, it never goes out of style.”