http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Mangalore/Siddaramaiah-heading-an-%E2%80%98arrogant-and-sleepy%E2%80%99-government-says-BJP/article14015829.ece

The BJP kick-started its election campaign for zilla and taluk panchayats in Dakshina Kannada on Friday with its leaders launching a diatribe against the Congress government in State, which they said, was in a deep slumber.Addressing the party workers at a convention at Arkula on the outskirts of the city, former Minister and party leader S. Suresh Kumar alleged that Chief Minister Siddaramaiah was heading an “arrogant, lazy and sleepy” government.Criticising the State government for imposing tax on the services of intensive care units (ICUs) in hospitals, Mr. Kumar said that the days might not be far away, when the government imposed tax on ventilator services in hospitals.Achievement of the State government in the last two-and-a-half years was zero. The State Ministers in Dakshina Kannada were busy pursuing an “appeasing politics” of a certain section of society.Of the 230 gram panchayats in Dakshina Kannada for which elections were held last year, the BJP-backed members were in majority in 121 panchayats. The party had been in majority in panchayatraj institutions of the district that was in the zilla panchayat and five taluk panchayats. The party gave a transparent administration in them in the past five years, Mr. Kumar claimed.Nalin Kumar Kateel, MP, said that the BJP would launch an agitation within a week, seeking rights of farmers over “kumki” land. The State had failed to protect farmers’ interests as the matter had now reached the court. Mr. Kateel said that the party in Dakshina Kannada would intensify its agitation against the Yettinahole diversion project next month.The State had failed to protect the interests of rubber growers by not announcing minimum support price for natural rubber like in Kerala. The Kerala government had reserved Rs. 350 crore for the purpose for 2015-16 of which the Union government had reimbursed Rs. 150 crore. The Union government was initiating steps to increase import dutry rates on natural rubber for minimising imports.Kota Srinivasa Poojary, MLC, Pratap Simha Nayak, president of Dakshina Kannada unit of BJP spoke.