http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Single%E2%80%99s-the-way-to-go/article13997430.ece

For independent and film musicians across the country, 2015 convinced everyone that one ‘single’ promising to bring the internet down is indeed the way ahead as a minimalist move from the album production-ways of the past. There are newer rules on the popularity front: more focus on the visuals, musicians must transform into performers, the release must be timely.Recent trendsJust when Baahubali was fading away from our minds, pop singer Smitha surprised us with the single ‘Baha Kaliki’, a tribute to the movie as well as language Kiliki used in the film. The quirky number captured the imagination of many.The video releasing through Youtube, playing with the popular words of the language, had actor ‘Kalakeya‘ Prabhakar giving authentic company to the singer. Then there is the a social purpose angle as well: the case of a collective tribute to the spirit of Chennai by the film fraternity (in a video produced by Vikram, with music composed by C. Girinandh) that just made its way to streaming sites.The new and the oldMoving on to Hindi, the examples are many.There is Yo Yo Honey Singh’s rehash of the popular Aashiqui number, ‘ Dheere Dheere Se Meri Zindagi’ featuring Hrithik Roshan and Sonam Kapoor to Anmol Malik ‘ Lamhein’.Then there is also the an Indianised version of Coldplay’s ‘Paradise’ and Jonita Gandhi’s English twist to ‘ Tujhe Bhula Diya’ (from the film Anjaana Anjaani). All in all, this year saw a handful of newer versions of old popular numbers.Among singers who came up with singles are names like Aditya Narayan, who came up with as many as three of them, ‘ Zindagi’, ‘Tera Ishq Jee Paun’ and ‘ Tu Hi Pyar Hai’, Armaan Malik with ‘ Main Rahoon Ya Na Rahoon’ , Baba Sehgal depicting his canniness in ‘ Gaadi Mein Karle Disco’, Shrey Singhal with ‘ Khudai’ and Sonu Nigam in ‘ Aa Bhi Jaa Tu Kahin Se’ . Actor-cum-singer Ayushmann Khurrana brought back traces of the ‘ Paani Da’ magic with ‘ Yahi Hoon Main’. Most of these individual successes have given the artistes a strong reason to do away with albums.More than party songs Spare an occasional ‘ DJ Waale Babu’ by the rapper Baadshah or the numbers by Yo Yo Honey Singh (both in 2014 and 2015), the Hindi music industry is coming out of the party-single phase. Breaking the monotony, most of the singles now have space for something contemporary yet rooted enough.Eye on longevity Although most of the videos eye instant fame, the long time being taken to produce one, with quality being a significant concern, have helped the impact last long. One spin off of this trend has been the brownie points that the singer gets despite the quantity of output being less.Film directors on job A majority of these are helmed by film directors, ensuring the scale of production is not compromised. While Deva Katta ideated Smita’s Baha Kiliki’, Mohit Suri directed Anmol Malik’s ‘ Lamhein’ and Ahmed Khan choreographed ‘ Dheere Dheere’.Amit Sharma took charge of ‘ Main Rahoon Ya Na Rahoon’ and Anubhav Sinha of Sonu Nigam’s ' Aa Bhi Jaa Tu Kahin Se’.Listen to all the above mentioned songs here