http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Sirsi-boys-win-The-Hindu-Young-World-Quiz/article13987412.ece

Chinmay D. Hegde and Prajwal M. Yaji of Lions English Medium High School, Sirsi, emerged winners of the 16{+t}{+h}edition of The Hindu Young World Quiz regional finals here on Thursday.In the annual event at the elegant Samskrutika Bhavan at New Cotton Market in Hubballi, the team led from the start by going for the buzzer early to answer the picture puzzle of cricketer Virat Kohli, which got them 38 points.Comfortably positioned on the top with 58 points after the first round, they faltered once to lose 10 points, but subsequently played safe to maintain the lead and emerge victorious with 48 points. The winning team got trophies and bicycles as prize.Pramath M. and Anantnag K. of Nirmala K. Thakkar High School, Hubballi, who started off with 30 points in the first round, could add only seven more points in the subsequent rounds to finish second to win the first runner-up prize.Rasshi Mondra and Tamojeet R.C. from Jindal Vidy Mandir, Torangal, came close behind them with 35 points to be adjudged as second runners-up. Having started with 30 points in the first round, they faltered midway and could add only five more to their tally.Rohit C. Patil and Srinidhi V. Toragal of KLE School, Manjunathnagar, Hubballi, got lucky twice with the buzzer in the final round of the quiz but could only take their tally to 27, to finish fourth. Pranav R.H. and Abhishek R.H. from KLE School, Haveri, finished fifth. Girish R.J. and Rohan S.T. from MR Sakhare English Medium School, Hubballi, faltered thrice with the buzzer, which resulted them in finishing the quiz in the sixth position.Managing Director of Hubballi Electricity Supply Company (HESCOM) Khusboo Goel Chowdhary, IAS, gave away the prizes, goodies and certificates to the winners and lauded the initiative taken by The Hindu Young World in nurturing the quizzing skills among schoolchildren.Vinod V. Dattawadkar, Assistant General Manager of State Bank of India, gave away the trophies to the other finalists.In the event, an integral part of The Hindu in School (THiS) initiative, being conducted for the sixth year in the Hubballi region, 177 teams from across North Karnataka participated in the preliminary round of written test out of which only six teams made it to the final and played the 60-minute quiz.Conducting the quiz in his typical style with peppy interventions, quizmaster V.V. Ramanan engaged the children throughout the event and gave away prizes to those among the audience who answered the questions correctly. It is the 16th edition of the quiz, which is being held in 17 cities across India this year. The annual event kick-started from Hubballi on Thursday.SponsorsThe Hindu Young World Quiz 16th Edition is powered by State Bank of India. Firefox is the national prize sponsor, KOKUYO Camlin the goodie sponsor and Byju’s the regional sponsor. KLE Society’s BVB College of Engineering and Technology was the associate sponsor, JBM Industries the gift sponsor and Big Mishra Pedha the snacks sponsor for Hubballi region.To subscribe to The Hindu Young World log on towww.thehindu.com/ youngworld.