http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/Sivaranjani-shows-her-mettle/article14022716.ece

US-based S. Sivaranjani presented vocal recital for Kalasagaram last week at Keyes High School, Secunderabad. She sounded well equipped with the grammar and repertoire of concert music, for, her assemblage of numbers is a composite of some challenging numbers. She was gifted with pleasant vocal culture. The accompanists too gave good support in conjunction with vocalist’s output matching her calibre. The opening number was exercising Daruvarnam Mathe Malayadhwaja in Khamas of Muthiah Bhagavatar and presented it in two speeds with ease. She then went for Sakti Ganapathim in Nata as prayer to Vinayaka. Its musical element in Nata ragam retained interest in her musical expression. The neraval and swarakalpana she presented, taking the line Bhanukoti Samkasham, too had some exercising ingredients. The kalpanaswaras mirrored her creative skills. Aparadhamula of Patnam in Lathangi too was decorated with neraval and swarakalpana at the line Vega Nannu Brova. The neraval presentation was well gone through. Her swara presentation was well calculated effort. Renuka Devi in Kannada Bangala of Dikshitar was rarely heard number with rarer ragam. Kirtana rendition was impressive.Sivaranjani then presented Sarojadala Netri of Dikshitar in Sankarabharanam giving it sub-main status for she presented raga in great detail. The kirtana presentation was indeed impressive and for vocalist to go through this Sanskrit number with such a clarity was no mean a job. She did it well. The neraval and swarakalpana taking the line Samagana Vinodini were well presented. The swarakalpana was Sarva Laghu vlambakala presentation of swarams, well received.At this stage Sivaranjani chose to present Ragam-Taanam-Pallavi in raga in Mohana set in tistra Triputa talam. The pallavi line she chose was Maragathanga Sri Rajamathangi Mohanangi coupled with ragalapana in two stages. Tanam was fast paced and in the pallavi part the swarakalpana was set in ragamalika with ragas Hemavathi, Anandabhairavi and Kalyani, where the word ‘Mohanangi’ was replaced with the raga names in the chain.The end numbers were Telisi Rama Chintanato of Thyagaraja in Poornachandrika, a Tiruppughal number in ragamalika of Bhagesri, Bahudari, Athana and Shruthi and on audience request Pandala Rajakumara, meaning Ayyappa, in Anandabhairavi.Achyut Rao on violin, Madipakkam Suresh on mridangam and Lakshmi Narayana on morsing gave good support.The concert was sponsored by Vijayalakshmi Vaidyanath in memory of her grandfather S. Ramakrishna Iyer.