http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/chennai/Small-industries-feel-let-down-by-poor-response-of-State-government/article13994012.ece

The Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) sector is in a suffocated state post the recent floods and the units impacted are worried that with elections nearing the government would neglect them. Employees of the MSME sector will be protesting on January 11 to bring their problems to the State government’s notice.“Several Ministers have visited us and we have been repeating the same story but we have not got a solution. We will be protesting on January 11 and take this to government’s notice,” said S. Jayaprakashan, Secretary, Consortium of Tamil Nadu Micro Industries Association, at an interactive session on Rain or Shine - Make in Tamil Nadu, organised by the Southern India Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SICCI) jointly with all industry associations.Officials from the MSME sector were concerned about the upcoming elections. They requested State Industries Secretary C. V. Sankar, who was also present at the event, that papers relating to floods should be processed even during elections.“Officers who are handling flood-related issues should not be deployed for election work. Many of our customers are waiting to cancel orders. They don’t want any further delay from our end,” said M. Rafeeque Ahmed, Chairman of the Council for Leather Exports.Some of the members were also irked that the Industries Minister P Thangamani did not turn up at the event.The whole idea of this meet was to discuss immediate need of financial assistance the banks apart from discussing the importance of settlement of claims by the insurance sector. “We have been explaining our problems both to the Centre and State. This is the fifth meeting. Today, the Minister has not come and we are just talking amongst ourselves. We are not getting any solution,” lamented one of the speakers.“The relief has to be immediate, not after two months,” said C. K. Mohan, Vice President, Tamil Nadu Small and Tiny Industries Association. He added, “Many units have suffered production loss and are not able to pay the workers. If this continues we would have to lose manpower.”Palani G. Periasamy, President, SICCI, said, “During the Thane Cyclone the government had given financial grants to all MSME units. A similar approach is required now.”Representatives from the Thirumudivakkam industrial estate lamented that it’s been over a month now since BSNL lines were affected. The government should focus on strengthening basic infrastructure at all industrial parks they said.Mr. Sankar countered all the queries and said, “I will convey these concerns to the government. We will take long term measures that will avoid such situations in future,” he said.Currently, Tamil Nadu has a strong MSME base with investments of Rs. 67,130 crore providing employment to more then 69 lakh persons who produce over 6,000 different products.Industries Minister fails to turn up at interactive meeting to highlight problems