http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Smuggled-foreign-cigarettes-buried/article14015587.ece

: Residents of this village, located about 11 km from Kakinada, witnessed a strange sight of burying of cigarettes in a huge pit under the guidance of a group of officials and a few eyewitnesses. Cigarette sticks of various foreign brands were dumped into the pit and animal dung was spread on them as part of destroying sticks completely. Subsequently, the pit was covered with mud and soil.“Within a couple of months, these cigarettes will be turned into compost, perfect manure for agriculture and horticulture as well,” says B.K. Singh, Assistant Commissioner of the Customs Preventive Division, Kakinada - the officer who preferred to destroy the smuggled goods in an environment-friendly manner. The customs officials had seized huge haul of smuggled cigarettes during the multiple raids conducted at Kakinada, Rajahmundry, Bhimavaram and Tadepalligudem in a span of four months from September to December 2015. “In all, we have conducted nine seizures during the four months. Stocks of 2.45 lakh cigarette sticks of a market value of Rs. 24.73 lakh had piled up in our warehouse,” recalls Mr. Singh.After the opening of its Kakinada office, the Customs Preventive Division has intensified raids on smuggled goods and seized several commodities.Top among the seizers is, however, the foreign cigarettes that have been ruling the roost in the urban markets in East and West Godavari districts.As per the guidelines, the cigarettes have be to destroyed either by reducing them to ashes or by burying them under the ground. For the burning, the department has to obtain environmental clearance by following prescribed procedure.“More than the permissions, fumes emanating from the huge haul of cigarettes will have an adverse impact on the environment,” observes Mr. Singh, whose team of officials convinced the farmers from Pedapudi village to dump the cigarettes in the vacant site in the village.