http://www.thehindu.com/features/kids/Snooze-is-not-an-option/article14011999.ece

You may have heard people talk about not being able to sleep at night. There may be many reasons for this, and if they went to a sleep therapist they could get help.This therapy is designed to treat insomnia and other sleep disorders. Psychotherapists are trained to treat this ailment.Off to sleepA day in the life of a Psychotherapist begins with a visit to the clinic to evaluate and manage patients suffering from sleep disorders. They study the cases and see the sleep pattern, diet, job, lifestyle to come to a decision of what causes sleeplessness.Dr. Preeti Devnani is a sleep therapist. She says, “We are an important part of the Sleep Disorder team . The team consists doctors who have specialised in various kinds if relaxation therapies, clinical psychologists, counsellors, remedial teachers, nutritionist and diet Consultants. A sleep therapist relaxes the patient. We also evaluate his or her behaviour and provide behaviour therapy. We then help them manage chronic and acute sleep disorders.”To qualify as a Sleep Therapist, you have to study medicine and qualify as a doctor. After which, you go on to do your post graduation specialising in Sleep Medicine. This course is now available in India also. A Sleep Technician has to have a Bachelor’s degree in Science and then trains at the sleep lab. Now, he or she is qualified to conduct tests on patients.“However, this field is constantly evolving and it is important for us keep ourselves updated. Conferences are frequently held, as also workshops and attending these help keep skills up to date. In addition, it is necessary to read sleep journals to know what is happening around the world,” she adds.Like any other medical profession it is important for the doctor to keep in touch with patients regularly, involving them in support groups, updating them regarding their disorders and diagnosis. Since the spectrum of sleep disorders vary, the type of patients that come to the clinic include insomnia, daytime drowsiness, obstructive sleep apnea, unrestored sleep, unrefreshed sleep, abnormal movements in sleep, pains and nocturnal cramps and mood disturbances.Dr. Devnani says, “As therapists, we play a role whereby we reduce their dependency on medicines and help them manage their sleep better.”May be even a decade ago, no one had even heard of these specialised roles. But today, with the high stress factor in day to day lives, even a good night’s sleep is not possible. This is where sleep therapy can help.