http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Vijayawada/Social-welfare-hostels-misused-in-Krishna-ACB-finds-during-raids/article14026785.ece

In a shocking revelation during an Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) raid, officials found that students in only single digit were staying in hostels while the sanctioned strength was about 100.The attendance register also shows good strength, but none of them was present and no staff member was present when the ACB sleuths visited the hostels in the early hours on Friday.A police team led by ACB Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) V. Gopalakrishna raided the Government BC Welfare, SC and ST Welfare Hostels in the town. The ACB sleuths were shocked to see the dilapidated hostel buildings and empty rooms.In BC Hostel, ACB sleuths found four students out of the 100 strength, in SC Hostel 117 students are staying out of 140 sanctioned strength and in the ST Welfare Hostel, no students were present out of 40. However, in the attendance registers, staff members were showing that there was good attendance in all hostels.ACB inspectors K. Venkateswarlu and B. Srinivas, inspected the stock registers and staff particulars and found many discrepancies. Sanitation in the dormitories, kitchen, toilets and on the hostel premises was very bad and snakes and poisonous reptiles come into the rooms frequently, the students complained.As per the records, the hostel wardens renovated the buildings recently by spending about Rs.4 lakh, but part of the roof was falling down in the rooms and the buildings were in a dilapidated condition, said Mr. Venkateswarlu.Villagers complained that the hostels were being used as gambling dens, bars and other anti-social activities by some locals. Though the matter was taken to the notice of the staff and the officials no action had been taken, they said.“Following the directions of the ACB Additional Director General of Police M. Malakondaiah, the raids were conducted. If this was the situation in Government-run hostels, more raids would be conducted to streamline the system,” Mr. Gopalakrishna warned.Government was spending several crores of rupees towards students’ mess charges, cosmetics, drinking water, maintenance of buildings and for paying salaries to the staff. But, due to gross negligence and rampant corruption, the purpose was defeated.“Apart from departmental action, ACB would recommend for criminal action against the errant hostel staff. A detailed report would be sent to the government on the pathetic situation in welfare hostels,” the DSP told The Hindu.