http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Visakhapatnam/Solve-crisis-in-Telugu-open-universities-says-YLP/article14015710.ece

The State government should appoint Special Officers for the Potti Sriramulu Telugu University (PSTU) and Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Open University campuses located in Andhra Pradesh and resolve the crisis over payment of salaries to the teaching and non-teaching staff, former Rajya Sabha member Yarlagadda Lakshmi Prasad has demanded.The salaries of the teaching and non-teaching staff of both the universities, working in the campuses located in AP are not being paid salaries for the last six months. The Telangana government has decided not to pay the salaries of the staff at the campuses located in AP, as a result of the post-bifurcation blues.Addressing a media conference here on Friday, Prof. Lakshmi Prasad decried the apathy of the State government and the officials of the Higher Education Department towards the problems of the teachers and employees though the High Court had issued orders 15 days ago regarding appointment of Special Officers and disbursal of salaries. He appealed to Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu and Minister for HRD Ganta Srinivasa Rao to initiate immediate steps to resolve the crisis.Lok Nayak Foundation AwardProf. Lakshmi Prasad, who is also chairman of the Lok Nayak Foundation, briefed on the services of the foundation towards the uplift of financially poor writers during the last 11 years.The Foundation had also been honouring eminent writers at award functions, instituted in memory of the late N.T. Rama Rao and the late Harivansh Rai Bachchan, being held in the city from 2005 without a break.Noted scholar and “Maha Sahasravadhani” Garikapati Narasimha Rao has been chosen for the 12th Lok Nayak Foundation Award. He would be given Rs.1.5 lakh in cash and a citation at the award function to be held on Saturday. Malati Chandur, Boyi Bhimanna, Janamaddi Hanumat Sastry, Ravuri Bharadwaja, Subbanna Satavadhani, Olga, Gollapudi Maruthi Rao and Vanguri Chitten Raju were among those honoured with the award earlier.Lifetime Achievement AwardThe foundation’s Lifetime Achievement Award of Rs.50,000 will be presented to trade union leader Chalasani Gandhi, who worked relentlessly for the welfare of railway employees and workers, Prof. Lakshmi Prasad added.