http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Solar-powered-pumpsets-come-to-the-aid-of-farmers-in-Vijayapura/article13996138.ece

With the twin objective of making the optimum use of surface water and effectively tapping solar energy, the University of Agriculture Sciences, Dharwad, is introducing solar-operated pumpsets for farmers who have availability of surface water.According to the university, pumpsets with one-kilowatt capacity could supply water to one hectare of land effectively if micro-irrigation methods such as sprinklers or drip irrigation are used.The Regional Agriculture Research Station in Vijayapura, which comes under the university, has installed one such pumpset at the station to demonstrate its uses to farmers.“We are drawing water from a farm pond at the station here to irrigate one hectare of land. Before the solar-powered system was set up, we were using a diesel-operated generator which proved expensive.After installing the solar-powered system, we are paying no money at all as we get solar energy for free,” said M.S. Shirahatti, professor in Agriculture Engineering at the station.He said that a pumpset will cost around Rs. 1.4 lakh, of which sum the government offers 40 per cent subsidy, banks Rs. 50,000 loan, and the farmer contributes the balance amount.Elaborating the benefits, Prof. Shirahatti said that the system is best suited to small farmers who have surface water such as a farm pond, shallow open well, canals, and access to a natural water source such as a river course. As it is a common refrain among farmers that they do not get three-phase power supply to irrigate their farms, this system ensures three-phase power supply without any interruption.“Another advantage is that the usage of micro-irrigation system increases yield by 30 per cent-40 per cent as the water covers evenly the entire crop. It is a one-time investment. Thus, there is no recurring expense,” he said.Prof. Shirahatti said that the university has been promoting this system during all filed visits and at any programme which farmers attend.