http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Solar-power-generation-unit-installed-in-hospital/article14002541.ece

Sigma Hospital in city has installed a 25 kW HT solar power generation unit on its premises and over 135 units power is being generated every day. The hospital is said to be the second in the country to have a solar power generation unit.S. Gnanashankar, Managing Director of the hospital, and Dr. Rajeshwari, director of the hospital, said that by using solar power, the hospital has become eco-friendly. Over 700 g CO2e (carbon dioxide equivalents) is released to the environment to produce one unit of power through conventional power generations such as thermal or coal. The hospital had reduced their carbon footprint by over 89 kg, which would have been needed for producing 135 units of power in conventional methods. The solar plant was installed after taking permission from the CESC under the State government power policy of 2013. The plant, which can produce 145 units per day, is connected to the CESC grid and to a compact SMA inverter.Mr. Gnanashankar said, “Our country and our State are power starved, and frequent power cuts have been affecting activities at the hospital. Hence the hospital decided to help the government by producing solar energy.” He added that the hospital was the second in the country to produce solar power. “We are planning to enhance the capacity to 80 kW soon,” he said.The hospital has spent over Rs. 25 lakh on the unit and the CESC has agreed to give an amount of Rs. 9 and 56 p per unit power supplied to the grid.Harsha and Gururaj of Genius Industrial Services that installed the solar power generation unit told The Hindu that 90 panels of 300 Watts had been installed. They said that panels had to be cleaned at least once in 15 days, otherwise power production would come down considerably. Many people and institutions failed to understand this and concluded that solar power generation was difficult.The solar energy generation unit will be inaugurated on Monday at noon on the hospital premises.