http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/Sometimes-Yes-Sometimes-No/article14017546.ece

He would sit on a special bench at the front. His shirt always half-tucked into his muddy pants. For me, like many others in fourth grade, he was ‘The Repeater’. The boy who had failed his final exams; the pariah left behind by older batches. For the ‘rankers’ and their parents, he was an untouchable. Even the backbenchers tiptoed around him as if he were a skunk. Naturally, the day I sat next to him, audible gasps filled the room. I watched him curiously.Those naughty eyes and nervous tick, that restless gait — he doesn’t belong here. “Play the trumpet?” I asked. He shrugged, not anticipating human conversation.“Harmonica? Saxophone? Dad owns a garage?” Why? he demanded, certain that I’d make an insensitive joke.“Because you failures are creative people — like Sunil in Kabhi Haan Kabhi Naa .”Just like that, a 27-year-old shaggy-haired actor — and one of his flawed, needy, endearing personas — had broken the class wall. It wasn’t the first time I crassly interpreted life through him, and it wouldn’t be the last.I’d stalk Repeater later to check if he too showed his folks a fake mark sheet, or if he naively spread rumours about the girl he fancied.I’d cycle back home with him, because Shah Rukh Khan proved that he wasn’t contagious. That it was okay to be flawed. That imperfection breeds heroism too. And that, in big, big countries, such small, small things kept happening.Soon, from the childhood-destroying “Rahul, paani chala jaayega,” I became “Rahul, naam toh suna hoga?” At wintry dance functions, I’d pretend to look for my ‘Maya’ amidst many Nishas and Poojas. By day, I’d rock a shiny ‘COOL’ chain while attempting to dribble a COSCO basketball. When teachers scolded me, I’d leer up through my (numberless) glasses as if I were Raj Aryan, challenging loveless Narayan Shankars. The shoulder-draped sweater came into (my) fashion, as did the violin; I taught myself the Koyla theme, which, as I sheepishly discovered, was a desi imitation of Vangelis’ Conquest Of Paradise .When the girl I was infatuated with left town, I’d play an imaginary harmonica on an imaginary beach. I was too young to recognise the tune’s uncanny resemblance to The Moldau by Bedrich Smetana — because who the heck was Bedrich Smetana in my heartbroken universe? When my film professor urged us to “feel, don’t write notes”, I’d imagine this in the tone of don Anthony Gomes (Goga Kapoor) irritated with daft sidekick Vasco (Virendra Saxena). When exasperated, I’d speak like a machine gun — the everyman husband from Chalte Chalte or the bitter infidel from Kabhi Alvida Naa Kehna . When accused of being too ‘boring’, I identified his simplistic transformation from Surinder Sahni to Raj Kapoor in Rab Ne Bana Di Jodi . A man changes to seek love, both literally and figuratively, I reasoned.I’ve defined the most evocative phases of my early years through the faces and moods of Shah Rukh Khan. For 15 years, he had a movie for every step I took; even the Baazigar ‘rotating chair’ routine, which applied to my parents’ enemies. I’m not sure the kids of today can say that. They won’t quite look at Rahul Mithaiwala ( Chennai Express ), Charlie ( Happy New Year ) and Kali ( Dilwale ) for inspiration. He isn’t the lover anymore; he’s a habit. The critic in me cringes when he cries with pursed lips, or when he pays homage to his own legacy. But the fan in me wants that hair to fall back over his forehead; he wants more than open arms and an arched back. He wants the boy who invented that gesture, not the man who monetises it.I recently stumbled upon a Facebook photograph of my old classmate. A professional DJ now, he was slipping a wedding ring onto his wife’s finger. Did he, unlike Sunil, tell his Anna that he found the ring that night? Or did he meet — and change for — the pretty lady who asked him for directions? Whatever the case, I’d like to believe that a father didn’t need the local priest (Nasseruddin Shah) to tell him that his boy had passed in life. Perhaps he saw the young actor that made silent wishes under shooting stars. And perhaps he sees his son in the rise of that superstar.The writer is a freelance film critic, writer and habitual solo traveller