http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Soon-many-government-offices-will-start-harnessing-solar-energy/article14004286.ece

Soon, government offices housed in own buildings in Mysuru, Mandya, Chamarajnagar, Kodagu and Hassan districts will harness solar energy for their use and distribute the excess power to energy supplying corporations (Escoms).For, solar photovoltaic (PV) power generating stations will be set up on buildings, depending on their roof area. Most of these buildings are constructed and maintained by the Public Works Department.An initiative of the Department of Energy, Government of Karnataka, had released a sum of Rs. 20 crore to the Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation (CESC) and asked it to implement and monitor the project.“The solar PV panels for harnessing energy will be set up for free. After meeting their (offices’) energy needs, the CESC will take the back remaining energy for meeting its supply needs at no cost. By this way, energy will be saved and also generated,” said CESC General Manager Raghu Prakash.Speaking to The Hindu , Mr Prakash said that the projects division of CESC had been asked to work on the initiative and prepare for its launch. The data on the government offices housed in own buildings and other details should be collected for preparing the estimates and so on. After completing all such tasks, the installation would be taken up, he explained.Contending that the scheme had many benefits, Mr. Prakash said that public offices functioning in permanent buildings would be saving on energy cost since the energy generated by them would be used by them.As it is a government-sponsored project, the energy generated (after use) would be retrieved by the CESC, Mr. Prakash said, and added that other Escoms in the State would also be launching the scheme.To a question, the general manager said that a solar PV panel measuring 2.5 ft x 6 ft (the normal size used for solar water heater) could produce 250 Watts of energy.The extent of solar PV panel stations on each government building would depend on the roof area of the building. If the roof area was large, a large unit would be set up. A smaller building would have a smaller unit, he said.Plan is to set up solar photovoltaic power generating stations on government office buildingsSize and number of panels to be installed will depend on the space available on the roofState government has released Rs. 20 crore to CESC and directed it to implement and monitor the projectSolar panels will be set up for freeCESC projects division has been asked to prepare for the launch of the scheme