http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/Soon-you%E2%80%99ll-have-to-take-BBMP-nod-for-renovation-and-demolition-as-well/article14005082.ece

Want to demolish or renovate your house? You will soon have to seek permission from the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) for this as well, like one has to before constructing a new building. Likely to come into effect in a week, the rules are part of the new construction and demolition debris policy, which is aimed at monitoring the disposal of debris in the city.As part of the new policy, the building owner will also be required to intimate the BBMP of the estimated debris that will be generated from the demolition or renovation and submit a plan to dispose it, based on which the civic body will give its nod for the work.The benefit for the owner will be in the fact that the BBMP will dispose the debris, of course for a fee. Based on the estimated debris to be generated, the owner will have to deposit a particular amount upfront, which will be used as fee for clearing the debris by one of the empanelled contractors. A toll-free number for the purpose will drive the process, said BBMP sources.“The new policy will ensure that the agency will have data of production of all construction and demolition debris, which will make it easier for monitoring,” said Subodh Yadav, Special Commissioner, Solid Waste Management (SWM), BBMP.The debris will be dumped in unused stone quarries around the city. These quarry pits were identified in 2013. Of the 20 notified then, Lakshmipura and S. Bingipura were turned into garbage landfills and later shut down following massive protests by people living in the surrounding villages. The other stone quarries are in Chikkajala, Mallasandra, Jigani, Kada Agrahara, and abutting NICE Road and Bannerghatta Road. The BBMP is looking for new quarries to decentralise the debris disposal.Though a recent study estimated that around 1,000 tonnes of construction and demolition debris was being disposed of every day, BBMP and SWM experts differ on this point. “There is a historical backlog of debris in the city, which needs to be estimated and cleared in one special drive, only after which any estimation of the debris production in the city can be made,” said Kalpana Kar, member, SWM expert committee, BBMP.Debris leads to large black spotsDebris dumps by the roadside gradually turn into large black spots with people dumping garbage at the spot, which becomes unmanageable, said BBMP officials. In fact, this was the trigger for the new stringent policy on construction and demolition debris, said Subodh Yadav, Special Commissioner, Solid Waste Management, BBMP.“Debris and mixed waste turn out to be a major issue. Our garbage contractors also cannot clear these black spots as they are not equipped to clear debris, which is heavier than garbage. These black spots tend to get accumulative over a period of time,” he said.New construction and demolition debris policyIf you want to demolish or renovate a building:Submit an estimate of debris to be generated to the BBMPThe BBMP decides the deposit amount based on the estimateThe deposit money will be used by the BBMP to clear and dispose of debrisLarge bulk generators, such as the Public Works Department and developers, need to take permission but can dispose of debris using their own mechanism. It will be monitored by the BBMPThere is no proper quantification of production of construction and demolition debris in the city----------Debris to be dumped in 20 stone quarries identified around the cityAt Chikkajala, Mallasandra, Jigani, Kada Agrahara, and those abutting NICE Road and Bannerghatta Road