http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/Sops-for-realty-sector-in-urban-areas/article13981394.ece

A slew of measures, involving administrative steps as well financial incentives, and relaxation of some norms to boost real estate development in urban areas have been unveiled by the Telangana government.Built around the concept of improving the ease of doing business, the measures include introduction of a penalty, at the rate of Rs.500 a day, on the staff concerned for occupancy certificates (OC) not issued within 15 days.The decisions, on Municipal Administration Department proposal, were taken at the Cabinet meet on Saturday are aimed to simplify and remove certain bottlenecks in existing building rules, the Chief Minister’s Office said on Monday. These apart, the Cabinet approved certain concessions to promote investment in the sector since real estate played a major role in job creation and cementing economic growth.Noting that multiple rounds of discussions at various levels also preceded the decision, the CMO statement said the city level infrastructure impact fee was being reduced to encourage high-rise buildings.While rationalising the number of slabs from existing 4 to 2 (one up to 17 floors and the other for above 17 floors), it was decided to levy between Rs.500 per sq. metre and Rs.1,500/sq. m. in GHMC areas; and from Rs.175 to Rs.500/sq. m.Another major decision was reducing the special impact fee charged in the ORR growth corridor by 50 per cent. Upper floors above multiplex portions would be allowed subject to NOC from the Fire Services Dept / AAI.Provision of EWS (economically weaker section) and LIG (low income group) housing on layouts with open plots has been made optional. In doing so, it went by a representation of real estate agencies that suggested, instead, a levy of shelter fee from the housing projects on more than 2 hectares/5 acres. The additional revenue, of Rs.30 lakh per 5 acres of development in GHMC area and Rs.16 lakh in HMDA area, could be used to supplement resources of the government for construction of housing for the poor.By another decision of the Cabinet, levy of value addition charges of Rs.100 per sq. m in the Cyberabad Development Area has been being withdrawn to avoid double taxation (as most of the CDA has now become part of GHMC, which is collecting external betterment charges). In the remaining Manikonda area, which is not covered by GHMC, the charges, however, be levied. Announcing that fast track online approval system, to eliminate delays and hassles, is to be introduced across the State, the CMO said such a system for HMDA is ready and GHMC/DTCP would be taking immediate action to adopt the same. As regards validity period, it was decided to make it a uniform 6 years for all projects, including high-rise structures. This would apply to permissions already given.