http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Sparks-fly-at-council-meet/article14015495.ece

Pandemonium prevailed in the Rajamahendravaram Municipal Corporation council meeting as ruling TDP and Opposition YSR Congress Party members locked horns over alleged corruption in use of funds allocated for Godavari Pushkarams-2015.The intervention of Mayor Pantam Rajani Seshasai failed to pacify the warring groups prompting a suggestion by ex-officio members, including MP M. Muralimohan, MLAs Akula Satyanarayana and Gorantla Butchaiah Chowdary, MLCs Adireddy Apparo (YSRC), Somu Veera Raju (BJP) and Deputy Mayor Vasireddy Rambabu that a special council session be held on exclusively this subject in two-three weeks’ time. All members, except YSRC, agreed. The YSR Congress leaders did not allow the council to take up the issues on the day’s agenda and insisted on question hour.Led by their floor leader M. Sharmila Reddy, they rushed to the Mayor’s podium and staged a sit-in.Amidst the chaos, TDP leader Varre Srinivas read aloud the agenda points standing beside the Mayor’s chair and declared that the agenda was “approved.” Ms. Sharmila Reddy said she had the evidence to prove corruption in Pushkarams.The meeting started with condolences to the first Mayor of the RMC, M.S. Chakravarthi, who passed away last week and adjourned for half an hour.Trouble began when the Mayor called for a discussion on the day’s agenda. But agitated council members demanded a discussion on the alleged corruption in Pushkarams and question hour before taking up the agenda. Giving in to the Opposition demand, the Mayor announced that a special discussion on Pushkarams would be taken up on February 18.Rajahmundry city MLA Akula Satyanarayana said since correction charges of serious nature had surfaced, it would be in the fitness of things to convene a special session to discuss the issue. Rajahmundry rural MLA Gorantla Butchaiah Choudary also agreed and warned of stern action against those found responsible in the Pushkaram scam.Large-scale corruption is alleged in plantation of trees, construction and repair of roads and food arrangements at the time of Godavari Pushkarams.