http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/chennai/Special-trains-in-view-of-Pongal-rush/article13995754.ece

The following special trains will be run to clear the extra rush of traffic in view of Pongal festival.Train No.06175 Chennai Egmore-Coimbatore special train via Villupuram, Vriddhachalam and Salem will leave Chennai Egmore at 10.15 a.m. on Wednesday and reach Coimbatore at 9 p.m. the same day.Train No.06176 Coimbatore-Chennai Egmore special train will leave Coimbatore at 5.30 a.m. on Thursday and reach Chennai Egmore at 4.15 a.m. the same day.Stoppages: Tambaram, Chengalpattu, Melmaruvathur, Tindivanam, Villupuram, Vriddhachalam, Chinna Salem, Attur, Salem Town, Salem Jn., Sankaridurg, Erode, Uthukkuli, Tirupur and Coimbatore North.Train No.06176 Coimbatore-Chennai Egmore special train will stop at Mambalam also.Train No.06177 Chennai Egmore-Tirunelveli special train will leave Chennai Egmore at 9.05 p.m. on Wednesday and reach Tirunelveli at 10.45 a.m. the next day.Stoppages: Tambaram, Chengalpattu, Villupuram, Vriddhachalam, Tiruchchirappalli, Dindigul, Kodaikkanal Road, Madurai, Virudhunagar, Sattur, Kovilpatti and Vanchi Maniyachchi.Train No.06178 Kochuveli-Chennai Central special train will leave Kochuveli at 1 a.m. on Saturday and reach Chennai Central at 6.30 p.m. the same day.Stoppages: Kollam, Kayamkulam, Chengannur, Tiruvalla, Kottayam, Ernakulam Town, Aluva, Thrissur, Palakkad, Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Erode, Salem, Jolarpettai, Katpadi, Arakkonam and Perambur.Train No.06179 Chennai Central-Vizianagaram special train will leave Chennai Central at 7 p.m. on Thursday and reach Vizianagaram at 11.30 a.m. the next day.Stoppages: Sullurupeta, Gudur, Nellore, Ongole, Tenali, Vijayawada, Eluru, Tadepalligudem, Rajamundry, Samalkot, Anakapalli, Duvavada and Visakhapatnam.Advance reservations for the above trains are open, said Southern Railway.ChangesDue to line block to facilitate engineering works between Vandalur and Guduvancheri in Chennai Egmore-Chengalpattu section, the following changes will be made in suburban train services on Tuesday and Wednesday. Train No.40569 Chennai Beach-Chengalpattu EMU local, scheduled to leave Chennai Beach at 9.20 p.m., will bepartially cancelled between Tambaram-Chengalpattu. It will run from Chennai Beach to Tambaram only. Train No.40574 Chengalpattu-Chennai Beach EMU local, scheduled to leave Chengalpattu at 11.10 p.m., will bepartially cancelled between Chengalpattu- Tambaram. It will run from Tambaram to Chennai Beach.Chennai Egmore-Tirunelveli special will leave Chennai Egmore at 9.05 p.m. on Wednesday