http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Visakhapatnam/Special-teams-formed-to-check-cockfights-in-city/article13995564.ece

The city police have formed special teams under the City Task Force (CTF) to curb cockfights during Sankranti.This year, special emphasis is being laid to check the blood sport, which is associated with high-stake gambling.It is the main attraction during the festival season, especially in the rural areas.It is learnt that Director-General of Police J.V. Ramudu has issued a notice to all city and district heads of police to form special teams to bring down the incidences of cockfight.In Visakhapatnam, the teams under the CTF have already begun their search operations. In the last one week, 12 persons have been arrested in three cases.According to Assistant Commissioner of Police (CTF) I. Chittibabu, places such as Nakkapalli and Yelamanchili are the hotspots under the district police. In the city jurisdiction, places such as Bheemunipatnam and Padmanabham mandals are the focus areas.“Most of the cockfights and betting take place in private farmhouses. The trend is to place bets through SMS. We have already spread our intelligence network,” says Mr. Chittibabu. Last year, the CTF had conducted 25 raids during the one-week festival period and arrested over 50 persons.According to CTF Inspector Malikarjuna Rao, cockfights during the season have been prevalent since ages.When compared to the scenario in East and West Godavari and Krishna districts, stakes are not high in Visakhapatnam district.As per an estimate made by the Vijayawada Police Commissionerate in 2014, the stakes run into several crores. During the three-day festival, the figure touches Rs. 300 crore in these three districts alone.“High-profile political leaders, businessmen, and film stars participate in it,” says a senior police officer.To curb the blood sport, it is learnt that the police are intending to enforce Section 151 of the CrPC at the hotspots across the State.Under this section, a police officer may arrest any person planning to commit a cognisable offence without orders from the Magistrate and without a warrant if it appears to such officer that the commission of the offence cannot be otherwise prevented.According to Mr. Chittibabu, though high stakes are not there in Visakhapatnam district, many rooster owners from the city move to East and West Godavari and Krishna districts to take part in high-stake games.The roosters, at times, are imported from states such as Tamil Nadu and Karnataka at prices ranging between Rs. 50,000 and Rs. 1 lakh. The birds are given nutritious diet comprising millets and almonds and trained by experts for a period of about six months in secret locations or in private farm houses.Most cockfights and betting take place in private farmhouses. The trend is to place bets through SMS.I. ChittibabuAssistant Commissioner ofPolice (CTF)