http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Thiruvananthapuram/Speaking-through-strokes/article13991972.ece

K.V. Jyothilal belongs to the brand of artists who hold nothing back in their criticisms regarding the degradation that mankind has undergone in their quest for wealth and a materialistic way of living.The 35 paintings of the noted artist and sculptor, which have been exhibited under the series ‘Perception of Time’ at the art gallery of the Kerala Lalithakala Akademi at Vyloppilly Samskrithi Bhavan, are introspective portrayals of his outlook on various changes that the society has witnessed over the course of many years.“The prevailing social system has pushed us into an unending search for prosperity. In the process, we have been losing our innate capacity for love and kindness. The moral degradation that mankind faces paves the way for the tumultuous times, which has been marked by the lack of trust among people. Mankind has been trapped in a web of social codes that are in contrast with the need for harmonious co-existence,” he says.Through his paintings, Jyothilal has touched upon issues such as the plight of migrants and the repercussions of a skewed form of development that is being witnessed in the country. The artist also seeks to draw parallels between the relation of a mother and her children, and that of the nature and human beings, who stop at nothing to exploit the natural resources.Inspired by songsAmong his works is ‘Innenikku pottu kuthaan’, which is part of his much-celebrated ‘Love Song’ series that drew inspiration from the immortal songs written by P. Bhaskaran and Vayalar Ramavarma. He has also created paintings in memory of personalities who have greatly influenced him including artists C.N. Karunakaran, M.V. Devan and former President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam.Apart from using acrylic on canvas, Jyothilal has also employed pen and charcoal to create his works that have been kept on display at the solo exhibition. Having won several prestigious awards, he has exhibited his paintings and sculptures in numerous exhibitions in various parts of the country.The exhibition got under way on Saturday in the presence of Akademi chairman Kattoor Narayana Pillai. The programme will be conducted from 10 a.m. to 6.30 p.m. on all days until January 15.