http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Speaker-to-write-to-CJ-on-removal-of-Upalokayukta-Adi/article13995664.ece

The uncertainty over the pending motion for removal of Upalokayukta Subhash B. Adi was cleared on Monday with Speaker Kagodu Thimmappa stating that he had enough evidence to take the case forward. He would refer the case for inquiry by the Chief Justice (CJ) within a week.The Speaker had hitherto kept the motion on removal of Mr. Adi, moved in the House, pending for want of evidence. Speaking to media persons here on Monday, Mr. Thimmappa said that he had collected all documents pertaining to the issue and would send it to the CJ for inquiry.When asked how he could forward the case when the motion on removal was moved in the House but not yet admitted, he told The Hindu that he would admit the motion and then forward it to the CJ. “The House need not be convened again to admit the motion. It is up to me to admit it,” he said. He added that a petition filed by Mr. Adi seeking clarity on the preclusion procedure in the Karnataka Lokayukta Act would come up for hearing before the High Court and what happens there would also determine the course of action.Confusions galoreEarlier, there was much confusion on whether or not the motion was admitted. While the Opposition claimed that it was admitted, the Law Minister said that it was only moved. The Speaker had clarified stating the motion had only been moved.There was also much confusion on whether the government would take the case forward or not, with Mr. Thimmappa not convinced about the evidence made available to him by Congress legislators. It was feared that the lack of evidence would prove an embarrassment for the government.Despite his repeated requests to legislators and Minister for Law and Parliamentary Affairs T.B. Jayachandra seeking certified copies of the documents mentioned in the motion against Mr. Adi, there was no response.Meanwhile, Mr. Adi, who continues to attend office, refused to comment on the development.‘No communication from Vikramjit Sen’Minister for Law T.B. Jayachandra refuted media reports that the former Supreme Court judge Vikramjit Sen had declined to accept the post of Lokayukta.“The government has not received any communication from Mr. Sen declining the offer,” the Minister clarified to the media, reiterating that “two competent jurists” are in the race and that Chief Minister Siddaramaiah will take the final call.Earlier, Mr. Siddaramaiah also spiked media reports on a letter purportedly written by Mr. Sen in this regard.End to controversy over appointment of Lokayukta RegistrarPutting an end to the controversy over appointing an IAS officer as Registrar in the office of the Lokayukta, the State government on Monday told the High Court that it would restore the practise of appointing a judicial officer.The government in August last year had appointed P.C. Jaffer to the post instead of appointing a judicial officer as was practiced till then. However, the High Court subsequently stayed the appointment while terming that judicial officers deputed to the office of the Lokayukta cannot function under an IAS officer.On Monday, it was submitted to the court that the government would restore the practise of appointing a judicial officer in consultation with the Lokayukta and the administrative wing of the High Court.Following this submission, the Division Bench, comprising acting Chief Justice Subhro Kamal Mukherjee and Justice Ravi Malimath, disposed of the PIL, which had questioned the legality of the appointment.