http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/Spinners-call-the-shots-in-Al-Barkaat-Sule-Guruji-semis/article14023095.ece

Spinners ruled the roost on the first day of the Harris Shield Inter-School U-16 Cricket Tournament semifinal between Al Barkaat Malik Muhammad Islam English School (Kurla) and VN Sule Guruji English Medium Secondary School (Dadar) at Cross Maidan on Tuesday.First, off-spinner Anmol Tare (19.5-4-54-6) wreaked havoc as Al Barkaat was bowled out for 159 in 53.1 overs at the Sundar Cricket Club ground. Left-arm spinner Rajesh Sardar (16-9-19-5) then ran through the VN Sule Guruji line-up to reduce it to 69/7 at stumps.Al Barkaat’s Altamas Khan was the only batsman who displayed some patience, and the right-hander duly completed an unbeaten half-century (52, 92b, 5x4). No other player scored even 30.Rajesh, whose brother Mukund Sardar opened the bowling for the Mumbai Under-16 side which lost to Punjab in the final of the Vijay Merchant Trophy last week, idolises Ravindra Jadeja. And like the all-rounder who has become an integral part of Team India, Rajesh hopes to let his cricket do the talking.Admires Jadeja“I love the way Jadeja bowls. He maintains a tight line and cramps batsmen for room. He doesn’t give easy runs,” Rajesh says. But what about Jadeja’s inability to flight the ball or, for that matter, generate spin on flat tracks? “That’s alright. I will learn all that as I grow older and stronger. For now, I just want to be like Jadeja,” the 15-year-old shoots back.Rajesh, who is in Std IX, loves mathematics. And his bowling is all about calculation. “Thanks to Jadeja, I know how to bowl the one that goes away as well as one that comes into the right-hander. The action, the delivery stride is all the same. It’s all about that minor adjustment I make at the last moment. I have learnt this by watching Jadeja on TV,” he says.On Wednesday, Rajesh got rid of opposition skipper Sumedh Kamble with a ball that spun inwards. “I was very happy to get him out like that. I planned that dismissal,” he grins.BRIEF SCORESAl Barkaat Malik Muhammad Islam English School (Kurla) 159 in 53.5 overs (Rehan Khan 27, Altamas Khan 52 n.o., Adil Khan 26; Rohit Mane 3/20, Anmol Tare 6/54) vs VN Sule Guruji English Medium Secondary School (Dadar) 69/7 in 31 overs (Rajesh Sardar 5/19).