http://www.thehindu.com/features/kids/Splendours-in-sandstone/article13999390.ece

Nature is certainly at its best, at the Arches National Park, in eastern Utah, U.S. Situated on the Colorado, the red sandstone arches come in different shapes and sizes and could easily be mistaken for a manmade phenomenon.The inverted UThough the Park has a dry climate, the place where the arches stand today, were covered with water about 300 million years ago. With time, as water evaporated, it left behind salt deposits. Gradually, sand grains and other fragments formed a layer over the salt bed. With the passage of time, the sand grains were pressed together into sedimentary rock.The rock layer on top put pressure on the salt bed below, causing it to move. When the salt bed shifted, it came in contact with faults beneath the earth’s surface and lifted like domes.As the salt dome moved up, it cracked the rock layer above horizontally. With time, water made its way into the cracks and melted the salt. Once the salt liquefied, the rock structure above began to weaken and fell. The rock grains were carried away by water and the cracks enlarged to form narrow valleys. Wind and water erosion, carved straight, thin rock structures called “fins” out of the disintegrated rocks in between the valleys. Rainwater passed through the cracks in the fins, and in winter, it froze and expanded. There are more than 2,000 arches out of which 43 of them have fallen apart, since 1977; the recent one being Wall Arch, in 2008.The Delicate Arch is the most significant attraction in the Park. In addition, The Devil’s Garden is not to be missed. It has a 7.2 mile trail loop that offers an unforgettable hiking experience. Landscape Arch is the world’s second longest natural arch. Double O Arch is an experience in itself and beyond it is the Dark Angel, a monolith or a huge piece of rock.Flora and FaunaThe desert’s soil is favourable for bushes, grasses, cacti, moss and evening primrose to name a few. Since the desert climate is extreme, plants, animals and other creatures learn to deal with the hot and cold seasons. The animals remain indoors during the day in the hotter months and come out only in the evenings in search of food. Animals found include kangaroo rat, mountain lion, mule deer, red fox, squirrel and many others can be found. Among reptiles, side-blotched lizard, plateau lizard and gopher snake can be most spotted. There are potholes in the park filled with rainwater are home to fairy shrimps, tadpoles and insects.Did you know?The Arches National park was declared a national monument in 1929 and a national park in 1971.When the hunting community came into the park area about 10,000 years ago, they concluded the rocks of this area to be the best for making their stone tools.Game: Round aboutCheck out the slideshow and try your hand at the game we have for you.