http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/kozhikode/Squad-to-crack-down-on-litterbugs/article14020162.ece

Vexed with the sight of heaps of garbage in public places, the Kozhikode Corporation will revive night conservancy at bus stands and markets, and also deploy a special squad to crackdown on dumping of waste along roads and open spaces at night.“We are beginning this drive on Republic Day (Tuesday). This is a decision taken by the Council to address the problem of reckless dumping of garbage in public places and create a garbage-free city,” Chairman of the Council’s Standing Committee on Health K.V. Baburaj said on Monday.It was found that people from outside the city drove in with bags of garbage late in the night to dump these along bypass roads and open spaces. “For a start, a special squad of four persons, headed by a Health Inspector, will be on the move across the city, keeping a vigil on the spots known for unauthorised garbage dumping,” he said.The night conservancy will resume in a small way at the mofusil bus stand. Some of the other areas in the list are the bus stand and vegetable market at Palayam and the town bus stand.“We can revive the night conservancy immediately with three to four workers at one bus stand. To extend it to other areas in the city, we need to discuss this with the workers as it involves shifts and availability of enough hands,” Mr. Baburaj said.Filling vacanciesMr. Baburaj said the Corporation had a little more than 700 conservancy workers, and faced a shortage of 204 workers because vacancies had not been filled. Stepping up night conservancy would depend on availability of workers. Therefore, the Corporation would request the State government to fill vacancies in the interest of creating a clean city.“We want people to be part of the clean city drive by handing over garbage to conservancy workers. On an average, only about 70 tonnes of solid waste goes to the treatment plant every day. In reality, looking at the amount of waste dumped across the city, the total quantity could be around 300 tonnes,” Mr. Baburaj said, pointing at the enormity of the task before the civic body.