http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/letters/Sri-Lanka%E2%80%99s-shot-at-history/article13994206.ece

Apropos “ >Sri Lanka’s historic opportunity” (Editorial, Jan.11), the fresh initiatives taken by Sri Lankan President Maithripala Sirisena for ethnic reconciliation are a good harbinger. However, as of now, the scenario appears to have a blend of both hope and fear. Hope is manifest in the way Mr. Sirisena has set out on a path of harmonisation and peaceful coexistence of different ethnic communities. The fear is about how Sri Lanka will tie the loose ends given the past attempts, all of which ended as fiasco.Individual rights are not subject to a public vote and a majority has no right to vote away the rights of a minority. The political function of rights is precisely to protect minorities from oppression by majorities. To quote A.A. Milne, “The third-rate mind is only happy when it is thinking with the majority. The second-rate mind is only happy when it is thinking with the minority. The first-rate mind is only happy when it is thinking [about both].” Positive indications have come in the form of return of at least 2,000 acres of land in the Northern and Eastern provinces to original owners. It is a good augury that the ‘rainbow coalition’ now has a two-thirds majority to see the reforms through. The Sri Lankan President should not miss this opportunity.R. Sampath,ChennaiFor more than sixty years, ethnic crisis has been haunting Sri Lanka (“ >Constituting a continent of trust,” Jan.11). Violence is alien to the Buddhist way of life. Hence, it is strange and traumatic to see a nation with Buddhism as a major religion getting torn apart by violence. Even after the civil war, the political will was lacking to bring about reconciliation between the majority ethnic group and minority ethnic groups. Under such circumstances, the act of Maithripala Sirisena, Ranil Wickramasinghe, and Chandrika Kumaratunga to form a national alliance of the Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP) and the United National Party (UNP) was indeed welcome. Now, the alliance should evolve a non-discriminatory system of power-sharing through consensus within a democratic framework of national unity and equality. As Gopalkrishna Gandhi has rightly stated, the Sinhalese and the Tamils should adopt a civilisational culture of “celebrating” each other.Gnana. Surabhi Mani,Madurai