http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Visakhapatnam/Srimathis-set-the-ramp-on-fire/article13991842.ece

It was an exciting evening for Ch. Lakshmi, a mother of two children, as she decked herself up in bridal finery to make her maiden appearance on stage. However, it was not for any classical performance but to epitomise India’s tradition and culture.Hima Bindhu, another contestant, believes that women should be able to invest in their wellbeing. She said, “Beauty largely depends on how we take care of ourselves by staying healthy and enjoying every moment of life.”A total of 15 women who were shortlisted for ‘Srimathi Silk Mark - 2016’ shared what beauty means to them and how a silk sari continues to be a symbol of elegance and dignity for eons.Adding grandeur to the eight-day exhibition that concludes on Sunday, Silk Mark Organisation of India (SMOI), Central Silk Board under Ministry of Textiles, presented the first edition of ‘Srimathi Silk Mark’ in the port city, a unique platform for homemakers, on Saturday evening.The pageant meant to create awareness on adulterated versions of silk and promote Indian culture included a couple of classical dance performances. Wearing a perfect ensemble, the contestants walked down the ramp with élan. They were judged based on certain parameters, including their awareness on identifying authentic silk. While Anuprita walked away with ‘Srimathi Silk Mark’ crown, Hima Bindhu and Sri Valli grabbed the runners-up title.Besides, providing a ground for a shopping experience, education on quality silks became an integral part of the fair. “When the silk thread is burnt, the process of burning will be stopped immediately as soon as one stops the flame. But an adulterated silk will continue to burn even if the flame has been put off. Moreover, the residue of the burnt silk thread will turn into fine granules,” said Y. Srinivasa Rao and Chandan of SMOI.The ‘Silk Mark Expo 2016’ will be open on Sunday at YMCA, Beach Road, between 10 a.m. to 9 p.m.