http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/SSC-dropout-dupes-software-professional/article13988187.ece

An SSC dropout, who posed as a big businessman, married a software professional and duped her of Rs. 37 lakh, was caught by the police late on Wednesday night.The accused Mohd Siraj (35), a flower merchant from Humayunnagar, befriended the victim Afsha (26) of Rein Bazaar, who holds three bachelor degrees and worked in Google till October. “Siraj claimed that he was a rich businessman and owned properties at Banjara Hills, Jubilee Hills and Madhapur. He also said that he was head of a religious organisation and had very good contacts with leaders of various political parties,” DCP (south) V Satyanarayana said.While the father of the woman stays and works in the Middle East, her mother is a housewife and lives with the victim. “Without verifying his credentials, the woman’s family fixed the marriage in November. Afterwards, Siraj took about Rs. 37 lakh from the woman and her parents for buying properties,” the official said.The marriage was performed on Tuesday at a function hall in Rajendranagar and the reception was to be held the next day. Siraj gave a cheque of Rs. 11 lakh as ‘meher’ to the bride on the marriage day. But when the family members presented it in the bank they were shocked that there was no balance in the bank account. They verified his credentials and came to know that he was in a live-in relationship with two other women also, the police said.On Wednesday the family members approached the Rein Bazaar police who registered a case and picked up Siraj. “He was a tough nut to crack, apparently he is accustomed to cheating people using similar modus operandi. We have registered a case and trying to figure out his previous activities and cases,” Inspector Rein Bazaar, B Ramesh said.Meanwhile, the police have cautioned people against falling prey to tricksters who are trapping women and robbing them of their money through matrimonial sites. “In the last few months we are receiving many complaints about cheating in the name of marriage. Whenever we receive a complaint we register a case but the parents of the girls should check the credentials of the man before fixing the marriage,” Additional DCP (south) K Babu Rao said.