http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/Stalemate-continues-in-JampK-no-time-frame-says-PDP/article13996026.ece

Hopes of a quick resolution to government formation woes in Jammu and Kashmir receded on Tuesday, with both partners in the ruling coalition — the People’s Democratic Party and the BJP — refused to commit to a timetable.Both parties seem to tread the path cautiously in the sensitive State, witnessing militancy and separatism.The confusion in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) became evident when its chief spokesman Mehboob Beg set a timeline for government formation in the morning only for it to be retracted by senior party leaders later in the day.“PDP patron (late Mufti Muhammad Sayeed) had worked hard and came up with a vision document, Agenda of Alliance, which will remain the guiding force once the coalition resumes functioning. I expect the coalition to form the government soon after the State mourning ends tomorrow,” Mr. Beg had told the media in Srinagar in the morning.However, immediately after this statement, Mehbooba directed the party leaders “to wait for her statement”, said party sources.Speaking to The Hindu, PDP legislator Nayeem Akhtar said no time frame could be firmed up. “It’s not about the date but about the state of mind. Please respect Mehbooba ji’s right to privacy at this point in time. There is no timeline finalised so far. Mehbooba ji will take the final call and we all will wait for her,” he said.Mr Akhtar said there was no internal discussion on the government formation so far. “We haven’t even approached her (Mehbooba) and she has no time to receive suggestion from party colleagues. The process is yet to start,” he said.In Jammu, BJP national general secretary Ram Madhav, a key player in the BJP-PDP alliance presided over a meeting of BJP legislators, the first since Governor's rule was announced.The meeting was held at the residence of Nirmal Singh, who was a Deputy Chief Minister in the PDP-BJP Ccabinet.“Let the PDP reveal its cards firsa t. We will respond accordingly,” said BJP in-charge of Kashmir affairs Avinash Rai Khanna. BJP State president Sat Sharma added that “a government will be formed soon. There are no issues as such.”Sources said most BJP legislators stressed the need to have a government in place as fast as possible. There was also unanimity on Ms Mufti taking over as chief minister.