http://www.thehindu.com/business/Stake-sale-in-life-insurance-JV-saves-the-day-for-ICICI-Bank/article14026701.ece

ICICI Bank – the largest private sector lender of the country – reported Rs. 3,018 crore net profit for the quarter ended 31 December. This is compared to Rs. 2, 889 crore during the same period of the previous year as the lender tripled its provision since bad loans zoomed.What saved ICICI Bank from reporting decline in net profit was a one-time gain from selling 4 per cent stake in its life insurance venture to Premji Invest and its affiliates for about Rs. 1,250 crore.The bank also sold 2 per cent stake in its insurance venture to a unit of Temasek – the investment vehicle of Singapore government and 9 per cent stake in its general insurance joint venture to Canada’s Fairfax Financial Holdings. These stake sales, which still await Foreign Investment Promotion Board clearance, will fetch another Rs. 2,100 crore.Gross non-performing assets shot up to Rs. 21,149 crore as on end December, which is almost 70 per cent increase over the same period last year. During the quarter, gross bad loans increased by Rs. 6, 534 crore, of which Rs. 1,355 crore was slippages from restructured assets. Its gross NPA ratio was at 4.72 per cent during the end of third quarter as compared to 3.4 per cent a year ago.As a result, provisioning for bad loans jumped three times to Rs. 2, 844 crore in Q3 as compared to Rs. 980 crore, reported in the year ago.The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is forcing banks to declare assets as non-performing after under provisioning was found in 150 accounts in its asset quality review. RBI had asked all the banks to identity those loans as NPA and provide accordingly over the third and fourth quarter.Chanda Kochhar, managing director and chief executive of ICICI Bank said about 60 per cent of the increase in gross NPA is due to the central bank’s asset quality review and the subsequent directive.She said similar increase in bad loans and provisioning is expected in the fourth quarter also.“The global economic environment continues to be volatile and challenging. The subdued global growth outlook, the divergent monetary policies of various economies, significant slowdown in China and devaluation of the Chinese economy, and continued decline in decline in commodity prices have it implication for Indian economy and the corporate sector,” she said adding that the increase in bad loans in Q3 is mainly due to the steel sector which has been impacted because of sharp fall in commodity prices.On the business side, loan growth was 20 per cent mainly driven by retail operations that helped the bank to post 13 per cent growth in net interest income to Rs 5453 crore. On the liabilities side, the current and savings account (Casa) growth was 18 per cent and the Casa ratio was 45.2 per cent of total deposits.The bank reported net interest margin of 3.53 per cent for the quarter under review, up 7 bps than the same period of the previous year mainly due to decline in cost of funds from international operations. Margins could come under pressure going forward as more loans will not earn interest as they are classified as non-performing and also due to change in norms to calculate lending rates, Ms. Kochhar added. 