http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/Stay-away-from-unscrupulous-document-vendors/article14005117.ece

I have a B1/B2 visa valid until 2017. I travelled to the U.S. in 2008 for work. In September 2015, my passport got damaged due to rain. I applied for a new passport and received it. I am planning to travel to the U.S. soon. Can I use my existing visa for the travel?Amrita BanerjeeAs long as your U.S. visa is not damaged, you may use it for travel to the U.S. port of entry, even if the visa is in your old, cancelled passport.You need not apply for a new visa unless your visa was also damaged by the rain.Please note, however, when travelling to the U.S., you will need to bring your new passport AND your old passport with the valid U.S. visa.If you don’t want to carry two passports, or you believe your visa was also damaged by the rain, you should consider applying for a new U.S. visa through the Interview Waiver Program (IWP). Please see our web site for more information.On getting admission in a U.S. university, can a J2 visa be changed to an F1 visa?R.V. KrishnanThere is no provision for transferring from a J-2 visa to F-1 visa.You must apply and qualify for an F-1 visa. Please visit www.ustraveldocs.com/in to learn how to apply for a visa and schedule an appointment.I attended the visa interview in December 2015. I got 221g form for additional administration check. How much time will it take for the administrative process to complete?AbdullahAdministrative processing is a routine step that many applications are required to undergo before a final decision can be made.Unfortunately, we cannot give a specific time frame for completing the process.We recognise that the delays caused by the process can be frustrating, but we assure you that we process each case as quickly as possible. For more information about your specific case, please write to support-india@ustraveldocs.com and continue checking your case status.I have a valid petition to apply for a H1 visa. I will attend the visa interview soon. In case, I change my organisation before travelling to the U.S, will my petition remain valid?Praveen Kumar ShishodiyaH-1B petitions are employer-specific. If you change your employer, the petition is no longer valid and the visa cannot be transferred.You must obtain a new petition with your new employer and apply for a new H-1B visa. Please visit our website www.ustraveldocs.com/in to schedule your visa interview.My spouse and my B1/ B2 visas expired last year. Both of us are senior citizens with little computer knowledge. Can we get some assistance in filling in our visa applications?Venkata Appa Rao DontharajuYes, you may take assistance from anyone in filling out your DS-160 applications.If you receive assistance, make sure that is documented in the DS-160 form in the appropriate section.However, there are many unscrupulous document vendors who may try to convince you to bring fraudulent documents to the consulate, or who may use your documents for their own benefits.We advise you to be careful in choosing who assists you in filling out your forms.My daughter got her H-1 B visa stamped during her visit to India in December 2014. Her visa is valid until 2017.She moved to a new job in May 2015 and has an H1B sponsored by her new employer. She intends to visit India in March 2016. Does she need to get a consular appointment again to get her visa stamped with the new employer? If yes, can she use the drop box facility? What documents does she need to submit?UmaYour daughter may qualify to renew her visa through the Interview Waiver Program (IWP). Please visit our website www.ustraveldocs.com for information on renewals. If your daughter does not qualify for the IWP, she will need to schedule an in-person appointment.For questions regarding appointments, please email to support-india@ustraveldocs.com or call our call center at: from India: 040-4625-8222 (or) 0120-4844644; from US: 1-703-520-2239.Do you have questions about visas or other services provided by the U.S. Consulate General in Hyderabad? Each alternate Monday, Consulate officials will answer your questions.Email your questions to queries2consul@gmail.com. If you have questions related to specific visa cases or refusals, please email support-india@ustraveldocs.com.You can also visit the Consulate website at: http://hyderabad.usconsulate.gov for more information.