http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Start-up-Mysuru-contest-on-cards-to-boost-innovation-in-business/article14004324.ece

A pan-Indian competition for Start-up ideas to foster creativity and innovation in business and to promote industrialisation and generate jobs is on the cards. The Start-up Mysuru contest will try to harness the response to Start-up India action plan unveiled by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday and will be dovetailed with the ‘Make-in-India’ initiative. The Start-up Mysuru will entail on entrepreneurs to Make-in-Mysuru so that the city not only gets brilliant ideas from entrepreneurs placed anywhere in India, but takes root in the city to give a fillip to local industrialisation. The upside for the entrepreneur is that the idea will be funded for implementation for the first two years or more, if found to have business potential.Mysuru-Kodagu MP Pratap Simha, who has conceived the concept, told The Hindu that this will be one of its kind competition and the best three ideas would be selected for the funding .“The move behind this is to create an ecosystem of entrepreneurship, investment and start-ups in Mysuru. I am holding talks with a few fund managers … at least two of them have committed to fund the projects … the idea looks exciting and full of possibilities for Mysuru,” Mr. Simha said.The competition would be launched in due course and the promoters are looking for physical infrastructure to get the incubation centres started.The details of the concept are available on the website — www.startupmysuru.in.The rationale for the competition stems from the prevailing inertia in the business and industrial sector in Mysuru, which has not taken off as expected. Tourism is a major economic driver of Mysuru with an annual turnover of around Rs. 650 - Rs. 850 crore. But, the IT and BT sectors have not made much inroads.Mr.Suresh Kumar Jain of the Mysore Industries Association said that new Start-up ideas are welcome as the city has a good potential in terms of trained manpower, as an education centre besides connectivity and resources. The entrepreneurs would also get the assistance of mentors and advisers for which a core team of established entrepreneurs is being constituted.Going beyond digital entrepreneurshipWhile the focus of Start-up India will be on harnessing innovation in business with focus on digital entrepreneurship, there are other broad areas where Start-ups have a potential in a Tier II city like Mysuru. Mr. Jain pointed out that the technical expertise of two major food research laboratories – CFTRI and DFRL – could be harnessed by entrepreneurs.“There is a tremendous promise for the food industry … but it is yet to take off,” he said.Harnessing the state-of-the-art technology for value addition in food industry was a gold mine waiting to be exploited, he said and added that its growth was stymied due to lack of innovative ideas. “Besides food industry, similar Start -ups in the manufacturing sector would help bring the latest technology and benefit the entire cluster,” said Mr.Jain.