http://www.thehindu.com/sport/other-sports/Stay-injury-free-from-now-on/article13975256.ece

The marathon is only two weeks away. This Sunday will be the last long run. So, don’t be tempted to make up for all your missed runs in the next few days. It will end up being a perfect recipe for disaster. Most runners don’t realise it until they get hurt, but by then it could be too late.Some fundamentals to keep in mind:* From here on, you should simply look to stay injury-free. Trying to do too much (distance and speed) will only hurt you. Please refrain from it.* In training, do not increase your speed; keep up what you have done previously.* If you want to use any new gear during the marathon, you need to start using it from now on, whether it be a T-shirt, shorts, shoes or socks. The point being, you never attempt anything new during the race itself.* The same applies to stuff you’ll drink or eat before, during and after the run. Please practice all that you intend to do during the race in the last two weeks.Exercises and drills of the week* Last week’s exercise: Skipping (3 minutes, 6 times), toe curls (20 repetitions, 4 sets), quadriceps activation (sitting against the wall for 20 seconds, repeat 5 times), side bending (hold for 4-5 seconds, repeat 4-5 times for both sides) and heel drops (25 reps, 3-4 sets), shoulder retraction (20 reps, hold for 5 seconds, 3-4 sets).* Exercise of the week: Squats: Stand with your feet parallel, shoulder width apart. Put a chair behind you so that when you squat, you touch the chair and go up again. Don’t take your knees beyond your toes. Do 20-30 reps, 3-4 sets.Fifth week training programmeBefore you start any of your runs, jog in the same spot for a minute or two, followed by a slow run for 3 to 5 minutes.Exercises and drills of the weekSunday: Today will be the longest time you spend on your feet, around 4 hrs, 15 min. Please do not overexert as chances of getting injured are substantially higher. Always begin slowly, and keep moving. Take one-minute walk breaks every 15 minutes. Remember to catch your breath during your walk breaks.Monday: Rest from running. Do strength training and running drills.Tuesday: Long Interval Training Run: 2 km interval runs at projected race pace for the marathon. Take 1 to 2 minute breaks and then repeat 5 more times. Remember to keep the same pace throughout..Wednesday: Rest from running. Do strength training and running drills.Thursday: Longer Interval Training Run: It’s the same as Tuesday's, but distance for each interval is 3 km and you repeat it 6 times.Friday: 45 to 60 minute easy run. Try to take breaks only after 20 minutes. If possible, attempt a non-stop run for 30 minutes.Saturday: Rest from running. Do strength training and running drills.(The writer is a sports medicine doctor and student of running. He trains people who have never run before as well as the best ultra runners in the world to run 333 kms in Ladakh and other inhumane conditions. Follow him @drrajatchauhan on Twitter)