http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/entertainment/Staging-a-spectacle/article13981531.ece

City-based theatre festivals, with the exception of those geared towards the youth, are usually staid, sit-down affairs, somehow lacking the charged atmosphere one associates with theatre-making, despite an assembly of made-to-order offerings on display. The implements of theatre are tucked away neatly, and backstage is a hidden dimension. We can watch, but from a distance. By contrast, the International Theatre Festival of Kerala (or ITFoK), which gets underway on January 10, is not a festival of simply vicarious pleasures. While the immediacy of live performance is as tangible as ever, there is the added frisson of bearing witness to the whirrings of a theatre culture in transition.The festival’s newest space is the NN Pillai Tent Theatre, named after the celebrated Malayali playwright. It can be described as a makeshift dome-shaped marquee, with children’s illustrations scrawled all over the enclosing nylon. Actors and audiences alike have been seduced by its intimate interior. Just 12-months-old, it appears to have found a permanent abode at the Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Akademi (KSNA), without yet paying obeisance to the mobile theatre tradition that inspired its installation. In 2014, Sri Lanka’s Janakaraliya theatre group had travelled to ITFoK, and had assembled a massive ‘mother theatre’ tent, that had arrived via sea, packed in 40-ft shipping containers. Once put together, it was a veritable circus. One could almost imagine trapeze artistes and safety nets and glittering costumes.Instead, we had Hunu Wataye Katawa , a Sinhalese version of Bertolt Brecht’s The Caucasian Chalk Circle , a World War II drama that fitted in well with the smouldering post-war ethos in Sri Lanka. Janakaraliya typically draws from multi-ethnic traditions, and their bilingual actors bring alive performances that have become part of country-wide peace-building efforts. This powerful context to its theatre rescued the staging from its general lack of nuance or even stagecraft. At ITFoK, the performance was aided by screens displaying super-titles in English and Malayalam, an arrangement that suddenly failed in a flash of white noise. Members of the audience chattered excitedly even as the beleaguered palace maid, Grusha Vachnadze, her baby in a backpack, walked with a bouncy gait to simulate the rocky terrain she was negotiating. Incongruously, the baby was a blonde Caucasian doll that stood out in an ensemble of dusky Lankan actors.I was flanked by critics from Europe. We were presenting papers at a critic’s symposium at the festival. We formed a little committee of Brechtian insiders, sharing copious notes on the goings-on. I had my cheat sheet on my phone (having downloaded the play’s Wiki page), and it was nice to orchestrate this little side-show, and pass on plot details whenever the on-stage action got too opaque. This tent, within the din of unbridled and unfettered spectatorship, allowed the sharing of asides; that wouldn’t be parliamentary elsewhere.When the doll grew up into a little boy who came running on to the stage; and it was indeed a boy, not a grown actor putting up a toe-curling turn; then the audience was suddenly enthused, and the steady attrition of spectators came to a halt. We paused to wonder about the childhood of such a child, travelling across the seas in a circus tent. Even if it had been packed away into boxes, the glamour remains. What also remains is the bonhomie of actors performing joyously — if artlessly — in a family-like enterprise that was, by extension, a community not unlike ours. The International Festival of Kerala will take place at Thrissur from January 10-16. Online registrations of delegates at www.theatrefestivalkerala.com has opened. On January 6, tickets can be booked at the KSNA box office.(The author is a freelance writer and theatre critic)Actors and audiences have been seduced by the intimate interiors of the Pillai Tent Theatre