http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/Startup-makes-a-mark-on-the-social-platform/article14006815.ece

In this age of social media boom, managing multiple accounts and shooting content from various platforms can get really messy. A Startup from Hyderabad, MavSocial, just made the life of digital freaks much easier and in the process also grew significantly as a company. Presently, the portal of MavSocial, has more than 10,000 registered users from about 150 countries.Top rankingMavSocial is ranked among the top 10 social enterprise applications in the world by one of the world’s leading business software review platform, G2Crowd, according to Mr. Navin Chandra, director of the company“Everyone's attention is now focused on social networks to express view, feelings and relay news. Not only individuals, but also companies with millions of dollars in turnover often take up to such networks. Imagine the dilemma of a company with more than 50 brands, thousands of news articles, photos or other media to make headway in social platforms?They have to open hundreds of accounts, login, and logout frequently. But in MavSocial, you become member once and click only once to publish in all the networks immediately,” said Mr. Chandra.Global clients“One can publish news, photos, videos all at once and schedule it in different time zones, copy URL's from websites to see previews and publish. The members can also see a report with total likes, comments and other information,” he added.Talking about the features, including the USP of MavSocial, Mr. Chandra said, “The users can schedule all their social publishing works free of cost. There is a content management option where all the history files are saved. The Asset Management option helps people access digital library and choose from a large number of videos or images to publish.”The company also has tied up with 50 global clients to manage their social media work. One of the client is UNDP (United Nations Development Programme) for which the company has also entered the competitive Chinese digital market.“We have partnered with Chinese micro-blogging site Weibo and video-hosting site Youku. We have Chinese language experts who publish the works in these sites. Apart from that, we also take care of client demands to reach out to certain geographical locations or targeted audience,” said Mr. Chandra.Overseas centresThe company has two overseas centres, one each in Hong Kong and United States besides, a Software Development Centre in Hyderabad and aims to attract one lakh users this year.Through MavSocial, registered members can publish their news, photos and videos in all the networks with just one click