http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/State-to-buy-power-from-Singareni-NTPC/article14006833.ece

he two power distribution companies of Telangana - TSSPDCL and TSNPDCL - on Monday entered into separate long-term power purchase agreements (PPAs) with Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) and National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) for purchase of 1,200 MW and 1,600 MW power respectively for a period of 25 years.Officials of the four companies signed the two agreements in the presence of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, Energy Minister G. Jagadish Reddy, Energy Secretary Arvind Kumar, Chairman and Managing Director of SCCL N. Sridhar and CMDs of TSSPDCL and TSNPDCL G. Raghuma Reddy and K. Venkata Narayana, respectively, and others.The documents were exchanged by officials of SCCL and NTPC with CMD of Telangana State Power Generation Corporation Ltd. (TS-Genco) and Transmission Corporation of Telangana Ltd (TS-Transco) D. Prabhakar Rao on behalf of the two Discoms.The documents were signed by Director (E&M) of SCCL P. Ramesh Babu and NTPC General Managers C.V. Anand and S.K. Khar and Chief General Managers on behalf of the two Discoms.The 2x600 MW power plant of SCCL at Jaipur in Adilabad district is expected to commence generation on commercial basis from April this year.However, it would take one more year for NTPC to generate dedicated power to Telangana State from its 2x800 MW plant coming in the first phase at Ramagundam, on the same premises where the national power giant has an existing generation facility of 2,600 MW as an inter-State generating station.Official sources stated that construction work on the first-phase of NTPC’s dedicated plant for Telangana is in progress and it is expected to take up second phase works on 3x800 MW plant next year.Asked about the proposed tariff at which the power would be purchased from the two generating companies, official sources said: “In case of SCCL, it will be according to the recommendations of Telangana State Electricity Regulatory Commission while the tariff for NTPC power will be approved by Central Electricity Regulatory Commission and there’s a mention of the arrangement in the PPAs”.