http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Kochi/States-to-pay-compensation-in-hit-and-run-cases/article13989256.ece

The Supreme Court-appointed Road Safety Committee plans to issue a directive making it obligatory for State governments to compensate the families of victims of hit-and-run cases where the culprits remain untraced, K.S. Radhakrishnan, chairman of the committee, has said.He was speaking after inaugurating the valedictory ceremony of ‘Third Eye,’ an enforcement drive implemented by the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) enlisting National Service Scheme (NSS) volunteers of the Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat), here on Friday.Mr. Radhakrishnan said the families of victims suffered as their claims for insurance were shot down at the motor vehicle tribunal with the culprits remaining untraced. “It is the responsibility of the State government to trace them or compensate the victim’s family,” he said.Steps are being taken to form a national level committee of experts to look into the implementation of road safety laws. “The focus will be on 13 accident-prone States, which collectively account for 87 per cent of the accidents in the country. Kerala ranks seventh in this list,” Mr. Radhakrishnan said.He urged enforcement officials not to be lenient towards those indulging in over-speeding, rash and negligent driving, and to suspend the licence of even first time offenders for a period of three months.Invoking the Motor Vehicles Act, Mr. Radhakrishnan said no exemptions should be given to pillion riders from wearing helmets. He said the Act made it obligatory on the part of the rider to ensure the safety of pillion riders.The Road Safety Committee has given directions to all State governments to identify accident-prone black spots along the roads and to report on the measures taken.Mr. Radhakrishnan commended the Third Eye project implemented by the MVD and said it would be promoted in other States as well.In his presidential address, Minister for Transport Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan called for more initiatives like the Third Eye to create public awareness. Transport Commissioner Tomin J. Thachankary welcomed the gathering.