http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Thiruvananthapuram/State-vacancies-reporting-takes-a-hit/article13989787.ece

The reporting of vacancies in various government departments and agencies to the Public Service Commission (PSC) for recruitment has been hit hard, with the special squads meant to identify vacancies allegedly ceasing to work.The government had constituted these squads to expedite the recruiting process following complaints that the heads of departments and public sector undertakings (PSUs) were either ignoring or going slow on the hiring process. In many cases, the squads are reported to have detected posts remaining vacant and officers concerned recruiting staff on contract in violation of rules, even after the appointing authorities had declared there were no vacancies within their lookouts. More than 1,000 vacancies in different posts were detected in random inspections and were reported to the PSC.The Personnel and Administrative Reforms Department had issued a circular on August 17 to all appointing authorities directing to report the vacancies anticipated from January 1 to December 31, 2016, by September 1.According to commission sources, there was no significant increase in vacancy reporting from any of the departments or PSUs till December end. Chief Minister Oommen Chandy had assured P.C. Vishnunath, MLA, in the Assembly that the reporting process would be toned and erring officials penalised.But Mr. Vishnunath told The Hindu that bureaucratic laxity was still in the way of expediting the process and officials tend to mislead the government about the vacancies status.Rules have it that all vacancies with a duration of six months and above, except leave vacancies, should be reported to the PSC. When there is a rank-list in force, vacancies should be filled up from the candidates in the list. But sources allege that many appointing authorities choose to fill up vacancies either with contract employees or candidates of their choice.The circular issued on August 17 had directed the authorities concerned to be diligent and accurate in reporting vacancies. It had warned against filling the reported vacancies either through transfer or promotion. But once the squads became inactive, vacancy reporting too has gone down, sources said.