http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/State-to-have-tie-up-with-IIT-BITS/article13980429.ece

The Telangana Government has decided to avail the services of experts in IIT and BITS here to overcome technical issues that would crop up in the implementation of Mission Kakatiya, the programme taken up for revival and restoration of minor irrigation tanks and major irrigation projects.Minister for Irrigation T. Harish Rao told the officials of the department during a video conference held from the Secretariat on Sunday to utilise the services of expertise available in IIT and BITS. He directed Principal Secretary S.K. Joshi to talk to the two premier technological institutions for having a formal a tie-up with them.Reviewing the progress of Mission Kakatiya with officials in Adilabad, Karimnagar, Medak, Nizamabad, Ranga Reddy, Warangal, Mahabubnagar, Nalgonda and Khammam districts, the Minister directed them to complete all works taken up in the first phase by March 31. He told the quality control engineers to inspect the completed works before giving closure reports and clear the bill only after completion of entire work.Asking the engineers to prepare a time schedule for the second phase works of Mission Kakaitya, the Minister also wanted them to prepare estimates for 50 per cent of the tanks to be taken up under second phase by January 15 and estimates for all proposed works by January-end.It was further decided to fill vacant posts of Superintending Engineers at Nizamabad and Mahabubnagar and Executive Engineers at Jagityal, Mancherial, Nagarkurnool and Eturunagaram.Stating that appointment of Assistant Executive Engineers for the department would be completed by the Public Service Commission in the next 15 days, the Minister asked the officials to handover responsibilities to them with a brief training.Mr. Harish Rao told the engineers to form village-level committees for protection and maintenance of tanks restored/revived under phase one and taken up soil test of the silt in the tanks proposed to be taken up under phase two. He noted that only 20 tanks were being taken up in every Assembly constituency in the second phase.Engineer-in-Chief C. Muralidhar, Project Director G. Malsur, Minor Irrigation Chief Engineers B. Nagender Rao and K. Suresh Kumar also participated in the video conference.The move is aimed at overcoming the technical glitches in Mission Kakatiya programme