http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/news/State-to-hand-over-housing-project-to-%E2%80%98dubious%E2%80%99-developer/article14001343.ece

The Maharashtra government is all set to hand over its affordable housing project not to a state agency, but a private developer that sources say has a questionable background and funding. The developer has failed to deliver on projects it has bagged from the government in the past. It was even blacklisted once by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation.However, these credentials are clearly not on the government’s radar. It is under pressure to provide 11 lakh low-cost homes by 2022 under the NDA government’s flagship ‘Housing For All’ scheme. The government has decided to sign an Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with developer Deserve Group, consultant IL&FS and the Canadian government for the construction of 4 lakh dwelling units at an estimated investment of Canadian $1.5 billion. The funds will apparently be procured from the Canadian state pension funds. The MoU will be announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Canadian counterpart during the ‘Make in India’ week in the second week of February to be held at Mumbai.However, senior officials in the government pointed out glaring loopholes in the way the MoU has been drafted. Several clauses vital to maintain clarity and transparency in the construction of such a large–scale housing project are missing from the draft MoU. Sources in the government said departmental reports have raised questions over the credibility of the group, which has completed only two of the handful of schemes it undertook with the Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA). Only a few of the 2,500 dwelling units it proposed to construct under various SRA schemes have been completed. One of the projects the group carried out was a slum rehabilitation scheme spread over 13.5 acres at Chembur.A senior official said, “The developer has not even handed over any letter of financial or any other support from the government of Canada. If signed, this will set a wrong precedent for dubious private developers to enter the fray, also resulting in horse trading in the construction, sale and development of these affordable homes.”Departmental reports also point out the draft MoU has left out the crucial ‘Clause 13’ of the Slum Act, which restricts change of developer at any point in time in the scheme on any ground, but incompetence. Several SRA schemes are suffering because the developer on occasion decides to leave mid-way and sell his annexure certificate to other developers willing to step in.This week, it has introduced the scheme to Mayors and commissioners of 52 cities and asked to them to prepare a draft proposal report (DPRs) by February end.