http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/Stories-for-our-grandmothers/article13990460.ece

When she was in her 70s, my grandmother found a wristwatch in my drawer and asked me why I never wore it. Wristwatches ,somehow, have never held my fancy. I shrugged and made a grand statement about how time can never hold me captive by the wrist. She laughed and casually mentioned that she had always desired deeply to possess a wristwatch. Unfortunately, she said, she had never owned one.My grandmother married my grandfather when she was 15. A few years after their wedding, when they were living in Delhi, she had asked him if he would buy her a wristwatch. My grandfather asked her why she needed one. He added grimly, “You look like you could get lost if I left you alone. How can I be sure you can handle a precious watch?” My grandmother, though, was not bitter about what he said; instead his question almost convinced her that she didn’t need one.On her 80th birthday, I bought her a watch. The shining black strap ironed the wrinkles on her wrist and I caught her looking at it with pride. Maybe she didn’t need one, especially at her age. But looking at her beaming at the watch, one could barely believe that that was indeed true.Two books I read recently reminded me of these simple, yet significant, desires of women that barely find an opportunity for articulation, let alone fulfilment. l  Shahrnush Parsipur’s ‘Women Without Men’ is a novel about modern Iran. It introduces us to five women and their five different desires. What complicates the simple wishes of these women is the turbulent political context of Iran that makes even reading a book on sexual fulfilment a ‘scandalous’ dream for any of them. Parsipur intelligently uses magic realism to offer an exhilarating novel. A dead Munis walks on the streets of Tehran, buys the book for five tomans and sits by the roadside to read it. Morbid, yes, but also strangely liberating.l  Bulbul Sharma’s ‘Travels With My Aunts’ tells us about her 11 ‘unconventional’ Indian aunts who each, intentionally or otherwise, do what they are not supposed to, a list that most often has some of the most common things on it. Maya Devi, 75, travels all the way from Calcutta to London to see her eldest son, who has an acute fear of flying and has not visited her for 40 years. Anima, who decides to wash her hair on a Wednesday, instead of a Monday, finds that her simple decision changes her life.None of these women needed to do any of this, perhaps. But then again, need is such a small word — one that can only aspire to be as liberating as desire.