http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/entertainment/Street-smart/article14005823.ece

Banh miBanh mi is the love child of Vietnamese, French and Chinese food cultures all gently bleeding into each other. A crispy, warm baguette is daubed with mayo and liver pate, then stuffed with thinly-sliced meat, spicy pickled veggies and herbs like cilantro. A sprinkling of soy sauce and chilli completes the sandwich, which, truth be told, stretches way beyond sandwich territory. Today, the Vietnamese have regional riffs on the sandwich, the north offering a more austere option, but you can really stuff the banh mi any way you like. Pick one from BusaGo’s various types, including a vegetarian one.Where: BusaGo, Lower Parel, 9022887246; BusaGo Bandra, 9022887246Bunny ChowAll good street food starts with carbs and so it goes with bunny chow: a thick, scooped-out shell of white bread into which is spooned a spicy curry (beans, chicken or mutton), the bread acting both as the vehicle for the curry and a side. The bunny was born of South African apartheid, a time when blacks and whites weren’t allowed to dine together. It took the enterprising wiles of an Indian businessman in Durban to invent the bunny chow, a cheap, nourishing take-away dish for poor black customers. The Bombay Canteen used to do a splendid one (the non-veg version) until their menu changed, but you can still taste it at 145 – they’ve given it a patriotic makeover with a butter chicken version and a creamy mushroom. Me So Happi offers a somewhat more ‘authentic’ version.Where: Bombay Canteen, Lower Parel, 49666666; 145, Kala Ghoda 40396632; Me So Happi, Khar, 26044000CalzoneHailing from Italy, the calzone is a kind of perfectly portable folded pizza that can be carried in one hand, as opposed to pizzas that are a sit-down kind of dish. Nestled within each plump, meticulously-braided crescent of pizza dough is a mound of mozzarella and tomatoes; the whole thing is then baked until the crust turns pale gold in colour. The beauty of the calzone is that almost anything can be used as filling — cold cuts, anchovies, capers, eggs, whatever you like. At Yellow Bar All Day, you get a tomato sauce, cheese and olive filling stuffed into a crispy crust.Where: Yellow Bar All Day, Khar, 30151199GyrosTake a warm pocket of pita. Add tender, juicy, delicate slices of pork, beef or chicken shaved fresh from the grill. Splash on tzatziki or Greek yoghurt. Gingerly eye the other available toppings — onion, tomato, fried potato, bacon etc. Add at will. Consume. Smile.Gyros is what happens when one food culture seeps into another. The vertical rotisserie, invented by the Turks, led to the birth of the doner kebab. Greek refugees carried the idea with them, transforming the doner into the gyros, one of Greece’s most popular street foods. Here, in Mumbai, absorb them at, well...Gyros, in Andheri.Where: Gyros, Andheri, 9833007837Hot DogThere’s nothing that tastes quite so much as a summer in America as a hot dog (a.k.a. frank or wiener, because, well...). Although hot dogs have been around since the 19th century, it was Nathan’s famous hot dog stand in Coney Island that propelled them to iconic status. Today, of course, hot dog stands are everywhere — at baseball games, at amusement parks, on busy streets, serving juicy pork sausage spiked with garlic and slick with mustard, ketchup and pickle relish, all resting on a cushion of bread. That’s the classic, but wherever you go in North America, you’ll find different takes: dogs with coleslaw, dogs with chilli sauce, dogs with avocados and refried beans (surprisingly good), even dogs with fries and cheese i.e. a poutine dog if you will. In Mumbai, you get hot dogs everywhere and most come with a sweet relish and caramelised onions such as at Versova’s Jam Jar Diner. You get a posh one at AKA that comes served on a black slate, with griddled tomatoes and a parcel of salad on the side. There’s even a festive one available at Desi Deli, of pork and apple sausage, pear and cranberry relish.Where: Jam Jar Diner, Versova, 26368880; AKA, Worli, 24901994; Desi Deli, Bandra, 26408333PoutineThere is only one way to wade into the waters of Quebecois street food and that way is poutine. Poutine’s kind of a hot mess (the word literally means ‘mess’, a gadbad or ghotala ), a nest of slightly thick-cut fries drenched in an avalanche of warm, brown gravy and cheese curds, and naturally, the best way to eat it is to throw away your fork and knife and plunge your fingers into the scrum. There’s nothing quite like it to soak up the alcohol after a debauched night at the club. Try it at Social, where home fries are blanketed by a layer of melted cheese (Classic). The poutine at the Bar Stock Exchange comes crowned by cheese, gravy and a layer of onions.Where: Social, Colaba 22828484, Bar Stock Exchange, Andheri, Kurla, Saki Naka, Colaba, Bandra, 28501214TacoA very long time ago, a canny Mexican discovered that corn flour tortillas tasted pretty awesome when eaten with a pile of meat. But it was much later, in the 1940s, that entrepreneurs discovered that the tortilla, when folded over and fried, lasted longer and tasted better. And thus was born the taco of today — a fellowship of wheat or corn flour shell with a heap of charred meat or seafood, smothered in salsa and topped with finely-chopped onion, cilantro and tomatoes. In short, it tastes sublime. Back in the Bay, you’ll find tacos at Bombay Blue, Chili’s, Jam Jar Diner and Old Wild West, among others. If all else fails, there’s always Taco Bell.Where: Bombay Blue, Lower Parel, 2496 1999; Chili’s, Powai 67419003;Old Wild West, Lower Parel, 65366677; Taco Bell, Goregaon, 49253966.ChurroI’ll never forget the first time I bit into a churro. It was a winter morning in Madrid and I was dragging my frozen way to a cafe, when all at once, I noticed a snake of people loafing outside a stall. Within were two huge kadhais filled with hot oil that was spitting and bubbling, and a harried churrero squeezing choux dough into the angry ooze. But from that volcano emerged the churros, piping hot, honey coloured, star-shaped fingers of sweet, crunchy, crumbly softness. When I came home, I hunted for great churros and I am here to tell you that Indigo Deli whips up some pretty moreish ones. The churro has taken many forms, but the classic way is with a pot of thick chocolate and that is how the Deli serves them too.Where: Indigo Deli, Bandra,2643 8100All good street food starts with carbs and so it goes with bunny chow: a thick, scooped-out shell of white bread into which is spooned a spicy curry