http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/Struggles-of-a-clairvoyant-pacifist/article14001440.ece

The Mahabharata is a rich source of all kinds of political metaphors. Sahadeva, written by Basavaraj Sooleripalya and directed by Joseph, performed by Ranganirantara, chooses its representation of the mindlessness of war and the pathos of peace founded on the pain of death, to be its main theme.Sahadeva, Madri’s son and one of the lesser Pandava siblings, sidelined by his more illustrious brothers in the main Mahabharata texts, is the central character in this play. He has the gift of clairvoyance and can foresee the hopelessness of war. He is against the war but is bound by dharma to participate in it nonetheless. He also feels a professional commitment towards his gift of astrology, and cannot refuse its use to anyone – even Suyodhana, the enemy. Having predicted an auspicious day to begin the war for the Kaurava’s victory, Sahadeva refuses to divulge the nature of his conversation with Suyodhana, to his brothers. Nakula, who has overheard the conversation, reveals it and Krishna craftily turns it around to the Pandava’s favour.Shakuni, the double-dealing uncle of the Kauravas is the symbol of hate and vengeance. He seeks the destruction of the Kauravas to avenge the death of his brothers at the hands of Bhishma. The play creates a perspective in which Shakuni and Sahadeva are pitted against each other in a struggle of war against peace. War wins this struggle, the Pandavas win the war, and everyone loses in the end. Its metaphor-like quality is carried by parallel scenes of a young, romantic love defeated by the hopeless predicament of war. More anachronistic elements are seen when Sanjaya, narrating the events of the war becomes a contemporary media person “reporting live from Kurukshetra”, and a dog and a vulture feeding on the bodies in the battlefield talk about Gandhi and the Buddha imploring people (“… please”) not to fight wars. Heterogeneous costumes break away from stereotypical images of the mythical. Going by their appearances, Dhritarashtra could be a Rajasthani chieftain; the soldiers could be waiters from an upscale Chinese restaurant; the Kauravas and Pandavas could be a cross between the merry men of Sherwood Forest and Roman legionaries; Draupadi and Kunti could be traditional Maharashtrian women in their navwari saris – except for their quirky headdresses. A picture of the timeless and space-less quality of war, indeed!An s-shaped ramp descending from the left-wing to stage centre, is the constant setting. The gradient it offers to vertical space, defines levels in the lives of the characters: the young couple climb down from it into a fate of separation and pain, characters that look like refugees walk down from it and off the stage, the Panadavas begin their ascent into heaven, over it. All the scenes involving battles and heated exchanges happen on the ‘real’ level ground below.The performance occupies the complete stage; the props are both, functional and symbolic; the music – a mix of classical flute, percussion and soulful vocals – nicely complements the moods of the scenes. The aesthetics of representation couldn’t have been more interesting: for instance, Draupadi’s hair knot, the symbol of her vengeance, is an exaggerated black turban that dominates her head. The dialogues exhibit artistic word-play. “ Neenu illi banda kaarana, raajakarana”, Karna says to Kunti (“the reason for your visit is politics” a beautiful rhyme lost in translation, unfortunately) in what could have been one of the most poignant scenes. A better delivery of this dialogue would have induced applause!Perhaps the richness of the script and the choreography of stylized movements pose a challenge to the actors, but one cannot help wonder if a more involved and energetic cast would spare the audience the effort of having to look beyond the acting to see the beauty of the story.