http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Students-trash-Smriti-Irani%E2%80%99s-statements/article14011803.ece

For a short while after 3 p.m. everything came to a halt at the Shopcom area in the University of Hyderabad (UOH) complex. Every single student who had come there in solidarity with the protesting students was glued to the TV in one of the canteens to listen to what Union Minister for Human Resource Development Smriti Irani had to say.And once Ms. Irani was done, students and professors alike were staring in disbelief at what they had just heard. “Students who found the letter, had given it as it is. There was nothing more to it. She is ‘Manu’-Smriti Irani. We do not need anything from them (Centre), but only her removal from the post,” said Arundhati B., a political science student, who was clearly unhappy with what she had heard.Vaishali, another student who was at the Shopcom area, also differed with Ms. Irani, saying officials at the Centre were looking at every single letter from Rohith Vemula’s suicide note, referring to what the Union Minister had said. “In fact, when the press asked her questions, all she did was dodge them,” she added.Senior professors too who were present at the protest since morning said that the Union Minister should resign. “What exactly does she mean by saying that some of the officials who were involved in suspending them was a Dalit? And similarly, she brought up the caste of the boy who was allegedly beaten up as well,” said a professor, unwilling to be identified, and added that her words had not helped reassure the protesting students.And after listening to Ms. Irani’s words, it didn’t take long for students to bring an effigy of the Union Minister, shouting ‘Smriti Irani down down’. However, unlike Tuesday, students did not protest at the guest house in UoH on Wednesday, and were mainly present at the Shopcom area only where CPI(M) leader Sitaram Yechury had comeRoadblocksPaying no heed to Vice-Chancellor Appa Rao’s call to resume academic activity on the campus, protesting students blocked all roads leading to various departments. Big branches and other things like ladders were placed on many roads to ensure that classes were not resumed. It was only in the evening that some stretches of the roads were cleared.