http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Students-from-Pennsylvania-interact-with-MBA-students-at-Nitte/article13992914.ece

Students of the School of Social Policy, University of Pennsylvania (UPenn), led by its Professor, Femida Handy, interacted with the MBA students of Justice K.S. Hegde Institute of Management, on topics such as higher education and related areas, at Nitte in Udupi district on January 8.According to a press release here on Saturday, the visit was an outcome of a memorandum of understanding between the institute and UPenn.Delivering a special lecture on ‘Indian thinking and social science scholarship’, K. Sankaran, director of the institute, compared the way knowledge was viewed in social sciences from a Western scientific tradition vis-a-vis the Indian tradition. He said the former generally required one clear definition-oriented truth to be established by arguments.Sudhir Raj K., Professor at the institute, delivered a lecture on ‘Mindfulness for outstanding performance’. He said mindfulness could be easily cultivated if one was oriented in the present. Mindfulness taught an individual to focus on ‘here and now.’A mindful employee was oriented in the present, he said.Speaking on ‘Innovative features of Indian banks’, N.K. Thingalaya, former chairman and managing director, SyndicateBank and chairman of the academic council of the institute, highlighted the salient features of innovations made by the Indian banks in reaching out to customers.Quoting figures pertaining to the banking business, he said the deposit accounts of women in India constituted about 33 per cent of the total. A book ‘My Life, My Times in SyndicateBank’ authored by Dr. Thingalaya was also released by Prof. Handy. N.S. Shetty, Professor Emeritus of the Institute, who spoke on ‘Micro finance: issues and concerns’ said that linking self-help groups (SHG) with banks had seen a spectacular growth during the last decade. An effort should be made to transform SHGs into micro enterprises, he added.