http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Stuff-of-a-different-kind/article13990365.ece

It’s 11.30 a.m. and Jaspal Singh who is known by his pet name Bobby has no time to breathe. That the lanky sardar means business at this hour is evident from his attire. Dressed in a T-shirt and trousers rolled up to just below his knees, Jaspal is not just supervising his team of cooks and cleaners at Bobby Da Dhaba but also working with them. He places the mat, then goes and checks on two workers preparing the aloo stuffing for aloo paratha. The dough for plain paratha is ready in the meantime. It needs his approval. The restaurant located on St. John’s Road is gearing up to open its doors for lunch at 12.30 p.m. The orders for parcels have started trickling in.This is how the day pans out at Bobby da Dhaba, which has fostered North Indian food, particularly parathas for 31 years in Bengaluru. The growing community of paratha lovers swear by its aloo parathas, aloo pyaaz, gobhi paratha and methi paratha. “Everybody eats parathas now — Kannadigas, Tamilians, Marwaris, Jains, Malayalis — not just North Indians,” says Bobby observing the popularity of parathas in Bengaluru. Parathas, a popular breakfast in North India, is a flat-bread either plain or stuffed with different kinds of fillings.While on weekdays Bobby Da Dhaba sells 150 parathas, on weekends the number goes up to 600. The rising popularity of parathas in the city is a recent development associated with the influx of people from the North but who ate parathas in 1985 when Bobby Da Paratha came into being. “The gurudwara suggested that we prepare food for those visiting it. They wanted typical dal and phulka but wouldn’t find it anywhere in the city. That’s how we started. Gradually we set up a place near the gurudwara in Ulsoor and remained there till 2012. Later we shifted here,” he recalls.Loyalists like Maneesh Chaturvedi still throng Bobby Da Dhaba, craving home-like parathas and a dhaba feel but there are options galore to choose from. Paratha Plazas, serving some typical and some experimental parathas, dot the city now. Whether you are on Sarjapur Road, Koramangala, B.T.M., or J.P. Nagar, you will find these modest eateries churning out the usual aloo, aloo pyaaz, gobi and methi paratha and the unusual sattu paratha, humtum paratha, karram-kurram paratha accompanied with chutney, pickle and curd. And if you thought these paratha eateries have a preference for South Bengaluru then you are mistaken because you will find them in other parts of the city too.There is Rishi’s Paratha Plaza in Sanjay Nagar, Gurukrupa Paratha House on Old Airport Road, Lalitha’s Paratha Point on Dickenson Road. Then there is Paratha House on Ramaiah Street, H.A.L. Airport Road which serves a variety of North Indian food and an impressive range of parathas with innovative stuffings including capsicum, sweet corn, cheese and even rajma!The latest to join the list is Parachos in H.S.R. Layout. Hemant Rehani, a former IBM employee, loves parathas and desires to create a fast food chain which is akin to McDonalds. “There is no real Indian fast food chain and whatever is there isn’t fast food. Parathas fits into the bill. They can be made in five minutes and are wholesome. We are doing 15 kinds of parathas which comprise traditional and experimental stuff. Nachos are made of corn but we have tried to make nachos out of paratha dough. The dish is called parachos and we have named the restaurant after it. Parathas are becoming mainstream now.”