http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/Students-object-to-V-C%E2%80%99s-version/article14020107.ece

The JAC for Social Justice (UoH), agitating over the scholar Rohith Vemula’s suicide, alleged that the scuffle between ABVP and ASA was being linked to the protest against Yakub Memon’s hanging, with an aim to sensationalise the case. The trigger for ABVP leader N. Susheel Kumar’s comments on Facebook, in fact, was the protests by ASA over disruption of the screening of the movie ‘Muzaffarnagar Baaqi Hai’ at Delhi University, the JAC said, in a point-by-point rebuttal of the Vice-Chancellor P. Appa Rao’s answers in an interview published by The Hindu on January 24. While admitting that Mr. Rao was not the Vice-Chancellor when the decision to expel five students for a semester was taken, the statement by JAC on Monday said Mr. Rao’s role began after the suspension order was revoked and a new committee was constituted to enquire into the incident.It sought to know why the chairperson of the new enquiry committee Y. A. Sudhakar Reddy wrote a letter to Mr. Rao appealing for scrapping of the committee. Why was the Cyberabad Police Commissioner C. V. Anand’s petition to the High Court, terming Mr. Susheel Kumar’s allegations as baseless and false ignored, they questioned.The series of letters that circulated among Susheel Kumar’s brother, Union Ministers Bandaru Dattatreya and Smriti Irani, MLC Ramchander Rao and Mr. Appa Rao, and the meeting between the last two over the issue, and the inconsistencies and arbitrary decision, all belonged to Mr.Rao’s tenure.The V-C refused to even discuss the issue, giving excuse that the case was in court, the students alleged, while reminding him the letter by Rohith asking him to provide the option of suicide/euthanasia to students. Referring to Mr.Rao’s claim that the students did not protest as soon as the order was served, the JAC said the orders were implemented during vacation so as to preclude the protests. They denied any proactive measures by the V-C to ameliorate the situation. If Mr. Rao had requested the Executive Council (to which he was chairperson) to reconsider the decision, why did he ratify the report in the first place, the JAC questioned, and revealed that the minutes of the meeting did not mention his request.