http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/Students-job-aspirants-to-benefit-from-SETWIN-initiative/article13992788.ece

Students and job aspirants could soon enrol for free vocational training programmes in their own neighbourhood as the Society for Employment Promotion and Training in Twin Cities (SETWIN) is planning to tie up with the Telangana State Minorities Finance Corporation (TSMFC) and set up more centres.The SETWIN gets a small budget that suffices for only payment of salaries of its employees and the funds generated through training programmes are spent on maintenance of the institutes leaving little scope for expanding its activities and start new centres, officials say.Around 47 courses are offered by the society at its 21 training centres located across the city. Almost all the centres are being run from community halls as the society does not have its own buildings. “The course fee is minimal compared to private institutes. Moreover, we offer 50 per cent discount to candidates in slum areas,” P. Vaidyanatha Rao, Managing Director, SETWIN said.There is a demand to introduce new courses and set up more training centres in different minority-dominated areas. “If the TSMFC comes forward to sponsor candidates at our institutes for all courses, it will help a large number of youth. We have experienced faculty and trainers,” Mr. Rao explained, adding that they are ready to run the centres in two shifts at 8 a.m. and 8 p.m. for the benefit of the unemployed youth and students.The SETWIN had set a target of training around 7,000 candidates in the current financial year and till now have trained around 6,500 persons. “There is a demand for teacher training and MS office courses from girls who have completed Intermediate and graduation. This apart, SSC dropouts are preferring beautician, mehandi designing and advance tailoring courses,” Mr. Rao explained. “We will be consulting experts from the IT companies, JNTU, Osmania University and skill development agencies to start new courses that suit local students,” the official said.SETWIN training facility at Motigalli is one of the oldest and biggest institutes and if the government is sincere in development of minorities, then it should ask the TSFMC to adopt the centre and upgrade it,S.Q. Masood,a social activist