http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/Students-%E2%80%9Cproud%E2%80%9D-of-their-anti-Modi-protest/article14016007.ece

Dismissing the charges of a publicity stunt, the Dalit students >who raised slogans against Narendra Modi> at a convocation here on Friday said they were compelled to protest because of the Prime Minister’s silence on the suicide of Hyderabad scholar Rohith Vemula. They said they were “proud” of their protest and believed it would help to prompt a response from Mr. Modi.Meanwhile, one of the protesting students, Ram Karan Nirmal, alleged that the university forced him to vacate the guesthouse accommodation allotted to him before due time. But Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University denied the charge.“I was evicted from the Siddhartha Boys’ Hostel. My boarding for the night was cancelled though my room was booked for January 21 and 22. We even deposited Rs. 200,” said Nirmal, who was forced to fend for himself in the winter chill.BBAU proctor Kamal Jaiswal denied his charge and said the student left on his own because his tenure at the guesthouse had expired. Nirmal lives in New Delhi, where he is preparing for judicial exams, and came down to Lucknow to attend the convocation.“The institution has not said anything like that. Some other people, with political motivations, may have... but the institution has not told him anything,” Mr. Jaiswal clarified. “We have provisions to provide temporary accommodation for students and parents. These persons have completed their degrees and are no longer students of the institution. Once the period of his stay got over, he left the premises,” he said.However, Nirmal stood by his charge claim and said his stay was cut short after his protest.While Vemula’s suicide triggered their protest, it also stemmed from a growing frustration with the “saffronisation” of educational institutions under the NDA government and its indifference to Dalit students, the youths said.“There is institutionalised saffronization at play. Talk of Mandir-Masjid instead of education. As citizens we are worried by the trend. We thought of no better platform than this to get our voices heard,” said Nirmal, a gold medallist in human rights.Identifying themselves as “Ambedkarites,” the youths said they had no political affiliation and acted on their own. “We feel like responsible citizens who have the right to dissent. Given a chance, we will do it again,” said Amrendra Arya, 24, an LLM graduate.Arya and Nirmal, both former students of the university, were booked and detained for a few hours, but were released on a personal bond.During his speech at the convocation, Mr. Modi broke his silence on the death of Vemula, saying he could feel the agony of his parents. The protesting students questioned the motive of Mr. Modi’s emotional posturing. “What delayed him for so many days? Just because we protested he was forced to shed crocodile tears. He was forced to speak for fear of losing Dalit votes in the 2017 elections,” Surendra Nigam said. Arya also questioned Mr. Modi’s long silence on the issue. “Mr. Modi tweets about every minor and random thing — be it a Mayor election or wishing somebody on birthday. But he has not said anything on issues of grave injustice, like the murders of Akhlaq [in Dadri], Dabolkar and Kalburgi,” he said.They said they could relate themselves to the experience of Vemula and the “discrimination” faced by Dalits and Muslims in the country. “Every day, we hear of discrimination against Dalits and Muslims. We see bias in every walk of life. We have also been mentally harassed at our university. Through our protest, we wanted to speak out against every atrocity faced by Dalit students like Rohith,” Arya said.