http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/kozhikode/Sudheeran-terms-International-Congress-a-poll-gimmick-by-CPIM/article13995786.ece

Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president V.M. Sudheeran has termed the International Congress on Kerala Studies, organised by the AKG Centre for Research and Studies affiliated to the CPI(M) in Thiruvananthapuram, as a gimmick the party usually carried out on the eve of Assembly elections.Addressing a news conference here on Monday, he said the CPI(M) talked about development of the State prior to the polls. But once the Left coalition came to power, it would take a U-turn and acted against development.However, Mr. Sudheeran maintained that it was heartening to note that the CPI(M) made a confession at the Congress vis-à-vis accepting the Vizhinjam seaport project. Even during the stages of the project discussion, the CPI(M) had made baseless allegations of corruption to tune of Rs.6,000 crore. Now the party had retracted its stance, he said.No publicity stuntsReplying to queries, he said the Congress party did not employ publicity stunts such as holding events as it always stood for development. The ongoing Jana Raksha Yatra was aimed at the continuation of the Congress-led UDF rule in the State, Mr. Sudheeran said.He refuted the allegations that the UDF government had resorted to witch-hunting of CPI(M) leaders by seeking a probe by the CBI against them in cases at the time of elections. The CBI had begun its probe against CPI(M) district secretary P. Jayarajan in the case of murder of RSS functionary Kathiroor Manoj much earlier.The KPCC president alleged that CPI(M) and the RSS shared a new-found camaraderie to defeat the Congress-led coalition. They had worked out such pacts earlier also.To another query, Mr. Sudheeran said the KPCC would not pull back from its declared position against political violence. The UDF government had reiterated that it would go ahead with the CBI probe to unravel the larger conspiracy in the murder of Revolutionary Marxist Party leader T.P. Chandrasekharan though a special court had convicted a few accused in the case, he said.