http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Sugar-the-new-salt/article13980092.ece

Sugar, it seems, is the new salt. Increasing levels of hypertension in the community, a major risk factor for cardiovascular diseases, has emerged as a public health issue in the State in the past decade. The dietary advice world over for controlling hypertension has traditionally focussed on reducing the intake of salt or sodium.But an eye-opening change in concept has now emerged. Latest epidemiological research and interventional studies have shown — and the cardiologists now believe — that the focus has so far been on the “wrong white crystals.”It made global headlines last year, when two American scientists, in their research article in Open Heart journal, presented evidence that it is sugar and not salt which is a primary underlying cause of hypertension and thus, more dangerous to the heart than salt. Cardiologists now admit that the recommendation to reduce dietary salt intake has not translated into the expected positive cardiovascular outcomes.“Scientists, analysing data during a 30-year period from 1970 to 2000 in the U.S., found that even though there had not been much change in the sodium intake pattern of Americans, the incidence of hypertension and the organ damage it created had gone up substantially. They zoomed in on the major lifestyle changes that had happened during this period, which was the increased consumption of processed foods. They probed if it could be something other than salt in processed foods that was giving the adverse heart outcomes,” says Tiny Nair, a senior consultant cardiologist.Processed foods are high not just in sodium but highly refined carbohydrates or added sugars which are added to food products during the manufacturing process. It now emerges that the added sugars, particularly fructose in the processed foods, has had a major role in increasing hypertension.The table sugar that is usually added to tea and other beverages is called sucrose, which is a combination of equal parts of glucose and fructose. But the most common sweetener in processed foods — fruit juices, soft drinks, cakes, cookies and any packaged food — is High Fructose Corn Syrup (HFCS), which is more fructose than glucose.“Fructose can directly cause obesity and hypertension. It can also indirectly increase hypertension by increasing the uric acid levels in the body. It is proven that high uric acid levels have a direct correlation to cardiovascular disease mortality. Salt may or may not have a role in propagating hypertension but it certainly makes sense that added sugar in processed foods is directly involved in elevating blood pressure,” says Dr. Nair. One can take heart in the fact that naturally occurring fructose found in fruits is absolutely safe.(Reporting byC. Maya)