http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Suggestion-on-out-of-court-solution-to-border-dispute-welcomed/article14009185.ece

The Belagavi District Kannada Organisations Action Committee President, Ashok Chandargi, has welcomed the suggestion by Shripal Sabnis, president of the 89th Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Sahitya Sammelan for an out-of-court settlement to the boundary dispute between Maharashtra and Karnataka.Dr. Sabnis, in his address at the convention that concluded at Pimpri near Pune on Monday, suggested that the Bharatiya Janata Party government in Maharashtra could use its good offices with Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking the latter’s intervention for an early out-of-court settlement.“We welcome Dr. Sabnis’s suggestion, as a solution to the dispute has been long overdue,” Mr. Chandargi said while talking to The Hindu here on Tuesday.But he wondered whether Mr. Modi would be able to resolve the border dispute that has been festering for more than five decades, as Mr. Modi had not been able to end the dispute over sharing Mahadayi basin waters between the riparian states of Karnataka, Goa and Maharashtra, though he was being repeatedly requested to find an amicable solution.It was only Maharashtra and the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samithi that have been pursuing the matter since long.It was the Maharashtra government which had taken the dispute to the Supreme Court. Such being the case, it remains to be seen if the Maharashtra government would consider the suggestion of Dr. Sabnis.InvitationReferring to the invitation extended by Marathi leaders from Belagavi to the Nationalist Congress Party president Sharad Pawar to accept a civic honour at a function proposed to be organised in the city soon, Mr. Chandargi said that Mr. Pawar had burnt his fingers in 1986 as his intervention in the border row had boomeranged. Also, the MES had outright rejected his proposal to establish Navi Belgaum near Shinoli of Kolhapur district across the Karnataka border in the past. Now, the MES again wants to use Mr. Pawar’s political services.Mr. Chandargi said that Mr. Pawar was honoured on the occasion of his 75th birthday by Chief Minister Siddaramaiah at Bengaluru recently. There was no opposition to the proposed civic honour to him but Mr. Pawar should desist from making any reference to the boundary dispute and ensure that he was not dragged into MES politics.Mr. Chandargi said that the State government had time and again maintained that there was no boundary dispute and that the issue was already resolved consequent to the Mahajan Commission report.Both the Houses of the State Legislature had also acknowledged this by passing resolutions accepting the report. Also, Karnataka is of the view that Maharashtra’s Original Suit was not maintainable at all and that issues of boundary dispute could be resolved by Parliament alone.