http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/society/Summer-treat-for-bird-watchers/article13999473.ece

It’s that time of the year when feathered visitors from far off lands come here looking for warmer perches. December to April is the migratory bird season. Having several birding hot spots like Punchakari and Arippa, birdwatchers and photographers in Thiruvananthapuram are in a festive mood.“These months present the best possible climate for birdwatching and photography. It is sunny yet not hot. It is the breeding season for both the resident as well as the migrant birds. So sightings are assured”, says C. Sushanth, veteran bird watcher, photographer and coordinator of Warblers and Waders. Also, most of the plants flower during this time and so there is a lot to feed on for birds.Bird watcher and one of the top bird photographers of Kerala, Biju P.B. says that during the breeding time, in spring, the birds indulge in courtship games and that provide lot of opportunities to observe and photograph avian lives.Bird activity near wetlands like paddy fields, marshlands and big water bodies will increase considerably. “Waders like sandpipers, plovers and stilts arrive in large numbers to wetlands like Punchakari. The water level at Polachira wetland, near Chathanoor (in Kollam district), is yet to recede. So there won’t be a lot of waders there now. But, I believe, within two weeks we will be able to get good sightings there,” says Sushanth. There is also a greater chance of finding the majestic fisher Osprey near large water bodies like reservoirs and backwaters.The woodlands too will play host to several birds as Brown Flycatcher, Indian Cuckoo, Plaintive Cuckoo and Nilgiri Blue Robin. Arippa forests on the Thiruvananthapuram-Kollam border is arguably the best spot for such sightings.There will be visitors to your houses too, provided there is enough vegetation around. Greenish Leaf Warbler is one of those species that can be found on trees in your compound. Sushanth says, “Other species that you can watch out for are Asian Paradise Flycatcher, Orioles and Indian cuckoo. These can be found in parts of the city with lot of trees like the Museum compound and Kowdiar-Golf Links area.”However, for birders in the city, beginners and veterans, the prime location for observing and photographing the migrant visitors is Punchakari-Vellayani wetland. December witnessed the sighting of two rare migrants at Punchakari – Eurasian Hobby and Amur Falcon.Says A.K. Sivakumar, senior education officer of World Wildlife Fund (WWF) Kerala wing, “It is mainly due to the farmlands and the open areas there. Vellayani lake provides abundant water as well as fish and agriculture provides food. It used to host a much bigger number of birds once, when there was paddy cultivation. If they start it again, the numbers will surely go up.” The region is mix of a freshwater lake, marshlands, tall grass environs, tree cover and farmlands. This mixed ecosystem can accommodate a variety of birds.For those who wish to step into the field of birdwatching, there isn’t a better time. Patience is the key whether you want to be a bird watcher or bird photographer.“I’ve seen many young photographers chasing the bird relentlessly. They are disturbing it and that is not the right way to do it,” says Sushanth. Every bird has a comfort zone and this needs to be understood. There are birds that will let human being come near them and there are those that are shy and take wing at the slightest of disturbance. Biju suggests that observation is the key.“It will teach you a lot about bird’s habits. Once you know it’s behaviour, getting photographs will be easier,” he says.Spot that bird in* Punchakari-Vellayani wetland* Arippa-Ammayambalam pacha* Polachira wetland* Kattillapara forests* Ponmudi-Kallar region