http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Sun-salt-and-the-Great-White-Rann/article13988551.ece

Eight hours of a backbreaking bus journey. A highway with few decent restrooms. And, weather that doesn’t hesitate to remind you that you’re in camel territory. The Rann of Kutch sounds like an oasis, as I trundle along a dusty road with nothing but roadside dabeli to appease a grumbling stomach. Is it worth it? The endless stretch of salt, life in a ‘tent city’ that mushrooms on the desert just for three months to host the Rann Utsav, craft villages that bring to mind terracotta walls with limestone drawings — I wring my hands and peek outside the window — this better be good.We arrive at Dhordo, the tent city, on a freezing December night, too tired to take in the atmosphere. Winds blow from afar, sending us deep inside our warm-wear. The fully-furnished tents await us — we bury ourselves in for the night.At the Rann, meaning ‘desert’ in Hindi, the setting sun takes with it every last speck of warmth. And so we feel grateful when it rises every day. No one dares take it for granted in Kutch, especially during winter. It’s best to rise with the sun when you’re here and retire when it sets.There are two things that define the Rann of Kutch — the flat snow-white salt marsh and the Kutchi people, who are among the most artistic in the world. They spend their days sharing a landscape with sandstorms, and nights amid the eerie chill. The lack of colours in their environment, dominated by dull browns and dirty greens, has drawn them to the reds, blues, and yellows that embellish their clothes.Hodka is an example of how these people have incorporated colour into their lives. The village is jewelled with bhungas, circular mud huts with conical thatch roofs, some of which serve as home-stays. Peek into one, and you may catch Sonia engrossed in mirror embroidery, a Kutch trademark. She sells exquisite bags, quilts and patches that are studded with mirrors. Dressed in an ornate kanjari (a backless top), a long cotton skirt and a dupatta that flows from head to toe, she represents the typical Kutchi woman — one who’s on her toes through the day. When she’s not cooking for the family, she’s working on a fabric that she hopes to sell to visiting tourists.Here is a community that depends on handicrafts for a living. Where men double as cattle rearers and artisans; where people like Umra can turn a piece of leather into artistic footwear. Behind the handicrafts village is the private living quarters of the people — although they are hospitable, it’s best to let them be. We stop at yet another crafts village where string cots gleam with beadwork necklaces and jhumkas.The Rann of Kutch is a handicraft haven where you can buy from the artisans themselves; the money goes directly into their pockets, so it’s best not to bargain. Craft stalls come alive on the outskirts of the tent city towards evening. With food and plenty of chai to sip on as you shop, these stalls showcase glittering mirror-worked clothes, handmade footwear and bead jewellery, most of which will not be available elsewhere in Gujarat. (The evening market at Law Garden in Ahmedabad boasts imitation versions, where plastic mirrors replace the real ones).Our Rann of Kutch experience ends on a windy evening, when the sun threatens to set by an endless ocean of white — the White Rann. On first sight, it looks like snow. Step on it and you can feel it crunch under your feet. The realm of salt lays bare as a chill sets in. The moon looks like something out of a dream — it’s the night before the full moon. Camels jingle by, drawing cartfuls of people, and cameras flash as the skies darken.The best way to experience the White Rann is to sit by yourself and take it all in. It’s an eerie feeling; with the moon bobbing overhead and a spotless whitescape extending before you…you can travel across the world for just a few minutes of this.I don’t complain much on my eight-hour return journey by bus to Ahmedabad — there are certain things that you endure to witness something as magnificent as the Great Rann of Kutch.(The writer was in Gujarat on invitation by the Tourism Corporation of Gujarat)