http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/kolkata/Sundarbans-buzzes-with-discovery-of-solitary-bee/article14016316.ece

A “solitary bee” species was recently discovered in the Sundarbans Biosphere Reserve.The 6.2-mm-long bee, named Braunsapis chandrai, is black in colour and has punctured legs. What makes it distinct from other species of solitary bees is the different patterns of the marks on its face and frontal region.The 96 species of bees of the genus Braunsapis do not make combs as common honeybees do. Solitary in nature, they nest in stems and twigs independently.“We have collected the specimen of the species, a holotype male from Dabanki in the Sunderbans Biosphere Reserve. The specimen was described by Rajiv K. Gupta, an expert in bees and Professor of Zoology at Jai Narain Vyas University, Jodhpur,” Gaurav Sharma, scientist at the Zoological Survey of India, told The Hindu.The “describing” of a new discovery is of particular importance in the scientific community, as it helps distinguishes the characteristics of the species.The detailed research findings on the new species by the scientists Rajiv K. Gupta, Gaurav Sharma and P. Girish Kumar were published recently in the Journal of Environment and Bio-sciences.Role in pollinationMr. Sharma said the new species played a significant role in pollination, though it did not produce honey. The scientist said of the 20,000 species of bees found in the world, India accounted for only 633.“The Sundarbans make the largest mangrove forest in India. For such a large and unique habitation, pollinators, particularly bees, play a very important role. This discovery not only adds to our knowledge about the ecosystem in the Sundarbans but also opens up more avenues for more research,” Kailash Chandra, director in-charge, ZSI, said. The bee was named in his honour.As bees play an important role in the ecosystem as critical pollinators, scientists believe that without them, the world would face extinction as food options would become highly limited.