http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Sunny%E2%80%99s-day/article14015882.ece

I haven’t watched any of Sunny Leone’s films, and it is unlikely that I ever will, not because of any bias, but because I only watch movies that have my favourite actors in it. But I must confess that I have peeped into her past — I am sure many others have done that too — once I got to know that she is actually a Punjabi.The past is back in her present, not to haunt her, but to work favourably for her future — all because a journalist kept harping about that past during a TV interview. Sunny Leone, a porn star-turned-Bollywood actor, has overnight become an epitome of grace and dignity, while the journalist, irrespective of all other works to his credit, will forever be remembered for this sole, shameful interview.It doesn’t take a genius to recognise that interviewers on Indian television behave like interrogators, showing little respect for their subjects and their sentiments, forever trying to fork out soundbites that can make for sensational headlines. Vir Sanghvi is perhaps the only exception; I don’t know if he still does TV interviews, but whenever I watch his old interviews on YouTube, he comes across as sensitive and gentlemanly, letting the subject do most of the talking, which is how it should be.But then, just like every country has the government it deserves, every country also gets the television journalism it deserves. India doesn’t like sobriety: it thrives on drama (read that as melodrama) and no event in life is complete without song and dance — and perhaps some action. And TV channels try to live up to the country’s expectations.Take for example Western media’s coverage of the terrorist attacks on Paris last year. Not a drop of blood was shown on TV screens nor were relatives of the victims interviewed: all we got to see were flowers left behind in the memory of the dead. Imagine the same happening in India (and it has): you will get to see the blood, you will have survivors talking about their harrowing experience from their hospital beds, you will find mikes thrust in the faces of relatives of the dead along with the question, “How do you feel about the death of your brother (mother, father or whoever)?”Cultural difference, you see, and the Sunny Leone interview was the clash of the two cultures.Sunny Leone was bred in the West, which strongly upholds the dignity of labour. Out there, working at a gas station (petrol pump) or as waiter in a restaurant does not belittle you: you are still entitled to your patch of the sky and nobody can take that away from you. And in the West, working in the porn industry is the same as working in a gas station — just another legitimate way of earning money. If Sunny Leone chose to work as a porn star, instead of working in a gas station or a restaurant, it was purely her choice, and she failed to understand, in spite of the interviewer’s repeated instigations, why she should be apologetic about her past or even regret it.The journalist interviewing her, on the other hand, represented the typical Indian male: voyeuristic and a misogynist, who considers a porn star to be a woman of loose morals, deserving to be interrogated rather than being interviewed. He wanted a juicy story out of her, missing a golden opportunity to bring out the several thought-provoking stories that she must be holding.Had the subject been an Indian woman with a background like Sunny Leone’s, the interview would have played out differently, perhaps become a tamasha, with the journalist perhaps getting the taste of his own medicine. But Sunny Leone, clearly not used to creating a tamasha — not yet, at least — kept her cool and came out with flying colours. Until now, she was a small-time actor; the interview made her a heroine.