http://www.thehindu.com/features/kids/Surviving-the-storm/article13999400.ece

This is my experience of the rains that lashed Chennai in December 2015. Drizzles turned into showers, showers turned into heavy rains, and heavy rains turned into thunderstorms. As the face of the rain kept changing from bad to worse, misery washed over the people, as the city flooded, taking away lives, happiness and homes, and replaced them with sorrow, loss and diseases.The rains had started sometime in early November. My family and I were about to turn in for the night when it began to rain. The ground was covered with water in less than two hours! Next morning, we saw that the water had risen up to the parking lot.We had no power supply, which meant no fridge, no TV, no laptop and no charge in mobile phones. I didn’t mind because I was having fun with my brother, as schools were closed. It kept raining non-stop for almost a week until, one day we understood that it may be dangerous to stay in our house. So, we decided to move to my father’s friend’s home some distance away. Things were fine over there.Soon, we heard that schools would be reopening, and returned home. Things were back to normal for a while. But, on December 1, dark clouds hovered above the city again. It started raining, heavier than before. This time we could not move out as the entire area was flooded and we could not take the car out. We were trapped inside our house for three days without electricity, internet or phones, but we had enough food. When we got the newspaper on the third day, we learned that we had only two feet of water in our area, and that in many parts of Chennai, water had gone up, covering the ground and first floor.I was sad to hear that people had lost their homes and belongings, but it was even worse that some people had lost their loved ones.Now, the rains have stopped and it’s sunny again. Schools have reopened after almost a month. While I am glad that the city managed to get back to normal, I miss the fun we had at home during the rains.Muhammed Saleel, IV, Al-Fajr International School, Chennai