http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/Sweeping-away-Delhis-dust-monster/article13999347.ece

At 38 per cent, soil and road dust are the single largest source of air pollution in Delhi and now the government has cracked the whip on defaulters for bad construction site management practices.Targeting construction sites, which cover more than 20,000 sq metre area, the Delhi government has issued challans to 14 construction sites of the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) and 42 major construction sites, including private builders, for violating dust control measures.Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain, who is also the nodal minister for controlling air pollution, said on Wednesday that among Delhi's major 48 construction projects, 42 have been challaned this week. He chaired a meeting with officials of different agencies, where he was apprised of the action taken against violators. He said that out of 47 verification done, notices have been served to 42 defaulters for depositing a compensation of Rs. 50,000 each.The Department of Revenue has collected Rs. 41 lakh through challans, the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) has mopped up Rs. 4 lakh and the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) has collected Rs. 2 lakh in fines.All corporations and land owning agencies have been asked to display boards containing information regarding steps to be taken for dust control during construction activity. While all the concerned agencies provided action taken reports on dust pollution and leaves and garbage burning, Delhi Development Authority (DDA) officials said that they have not come across any such cases in the ‘O’ zone area (the Yamuna river-front).Mr. Jain took a ‘serious’ note of the DDA report and DPCC officials have been asked to conduct surprise visits in the ‘O’ zone and parks under DDA.The Department of Revenue has mopped up Rs. 95,000 from violators for burning leaves, garbage etc. The EDMC has collected Rs. 20,000 and the New Delhi Municipal Council has collected Rs. 5,000 in fines from violators.