http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/Swimmer-Saira-wanted-to-represent-India-in-Olympics/article14019940.ece

Sixteen-year-old Saira Sirohi dreamt of representing India at the Olympics until her life came to a tragic end on Monday.Her 16 hour-straight swimming record and dozens of gold medals encouraged her father Jaideep Sirohi to quit his job to help her chase her dreams.In order to accompany Saira on her long tournament trips, Mr. Sirohi retired voluntarily as a UP Police constable two years ago, much against the wishes of his senior colleagues. Since then, he has been doing odd jobs as a contractor.“My presence ensured the pressure of studies never got to her. I ensured her focus was only on the sport,” he said. In a few days, Saira and he were set to leave for Pune to undergo a four-month long training.Saira’s teachers are unable to accept that such an “emotionally stable” girl could kill herself. “She was a motivation for all at school and was pampered by everyone. She attended very few classes and put in very little effort to obtain a decent 6.4 CGPA in her class 10 exams,” said DPS Ghaziabad principal Jyoti Gupta. The principal insists that neither was Saira bullied at school nor was she affected by her marks. “In a recent exam, she had scored 16 out of 30, a pretty decent score given the effort she put in,” said the principal. Saira had apparently planned to study a few extra hours on Sunday night for her school exam on Monday, which had prompted her 11-year-old sister Vibhu to sleep.“She (Saira) wanted to speak to my elder sister before sleeping, but could not as our father does not allow us to keep mobile phones,” Vibhu said. Otherwise, Saira was in a seemingly “cheerful” mood the evening before, her family claimed.Vibhu dozed off only to wake up to drink water around 12.30 a.m. “In the dim light, I saw my sister’s frame hanging from the door. I began crying loudly and my parents came running to my room,” said Vibhu.Mr. Sirohi initially thought burglars had entered the girls’ room. “With Saira’s body resting on the door, it took me much strength to open it. I assume she was hanging for at least an hour,” said Mr. Sirohi.Along with his wife Suman, he tried to revive Saira for several minutes, but to no avail. Police were subsequently informed and the body was sent for post-mortem. No suicide note has been obtained so far, said the police.Her teachers are unable to accept the death of such an “emotionally stable” girl