http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/Tableaux-focus-on-culture-mega-Modi-schemes/article14021738.ece

While the 17 State tableaux at the 67th Republic Day parade showcased the cultural kaleidoscope of the country, the six tableaux taken out by various Central Ministries preferred to focus on the NDA government’s flagship programmes.Several city-dwellers watching the parade were a bit disappointed over the absence of a Delhi tableau for the third consecutive year. The States and Union Territories that marked their presence this year included Assam, Goa, Sikkim, Rajasthan, Chandigarh, Tripura, Odisha, West Bengal, Bihar, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Tamil Nadu, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir and Gujarat.The majesty and grandeur of the Hawa Mahal was depicted in the Rajasthan tableau, while Goa and Assam showcased the local people performing the folk dances of two States — jagor and bihu respectively. Madhya Pradesh took pride in depicting its rare breed of white tiger, while also highlighting the issue of untouchability. In commemoration of B.R. Ambedkar’s 125th birth anniversary, the State also showcased a postal stamp and two commemorative coins of Rs.125 and Rs.10 denominations, which the Prime Minister had released on December 6.The tableau of Gujarat depicted the Asiatic lions in the Gir Wildlife Sanctuary, along with the tribal Sidi community settled in the forest. Chhattisgarh displayed the Khairagarh Music and Art University, one of the oldest in Asia dedicated to various forms of music, dance, fine arts and theatre, while Tamil Nadu presented the lifestyle, appearance, manners and customs of toda tribe of the Nilgiri district, one of the six primitive tribal groups of the State.The float by Jammu and Kashmir depicted rural development through technology and economic activities, besides making the villages clean and green. The State’s theme was “Mera Gaon Mera Jahan (my village, my world),” the flagship of the government under the Clean and Green Mission 2015-16.The various Central Ministries chose to showcase the mega schemes of the Narendra Modi government. Based on the theme of Swachh Bharat, the tableau of Drinking Water and Sanitation Ministry focused on the action plan to bring about total cleanliness in the country through improved sanitation and by developing hygienic behaviour among the people. The tableau of the Communication and IT Ministry showcased the projected achievements of its ambitious project — Digital India — aimed at transforming the country into a digitally empowered society and knowledge economy. Highlighting the Ganga Mission, 150 boys and girls from a Delhi school presented the sparkle of the river through their depiction ‘Nirmal Ganga’.