http://www.thehindu.com/features/homes-and-gardens/Table-top-designs/article14026736.ece

Not so long ago, who knew what a tablescape was. Cut to today when every designer and homeowner swears by a tablescape, basically a tabletop arrangement created to add style and visual interest to a space.What? A tablescape refers to the way things are laid out — on any kind of table. It could be a coffee table, an end table or a dining table. A coffee table would do well with a stack of thick books, a photo frame and some fresh flowers; a dining table can proudly show off shells, pebbles and fresh fruit piled in a clear bowl.How? Tablescapes adorn a table but must be designed keeping in mind the surroundings such as the room, décor, space et al. A tablescape can be fashioned out of anything that appeals to you. Ideal items include a light source (lamp or candles), an accent (book, photo frame or an artefact), a natural element (flowers, plant or fruit) and a fabric item (runner, napkin, mat or table topper) that anchors the entire setting. Other props that can be included are baskets, shells, buttons, trays, mirrors, vases and bowls.More. On the dining table, you can experiment with tablescapes but be sure to create a centrepiece that’s the cynosure of all eyes. You can use anything around the home — containers, vases, glasses, artefacts, silk flowers, potpourri, fruits, candles, grain, candy, and even chocolates. No centrepiece is complete without a natural element. Use succulents, plants, flowers, leaves, fruits or dried spices. Edible centrepieces are fun too — a bowl piled with colourful fruit, a glass jar full of water and sliced cucumber or citrus fruits, a cheese board or a bowl of beautifully wrapped chocolates.Keep your tablescapes interesting by juxtaposing different textures, colours and patterns. Keep adding and removing things to keep interest alive. And don’t forget the rule of thumb: Your tablescape should occupy no more than 1/3 of the table surface. After all, you do need the table to perform the function it is intended for.