http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/entertainment/Tails-of-wonder/article14021235.ece

The winter sky is known to house a treasure-trove of celestial objects that are often visible to the naked eye. However, in a smoggy city like ours, you would be lucky to spot the sparkling magnificence of planet Venus, or trace out the Great Bear constellation. But if you look close enough, with the aid of a telescope or binoculars, you’ll see a fuzzy ball of green floating in the constellation of Draco. Welcome, Comet Catalina, more formally known as C/2013 US10.The two-tailed comet has completed a long and tumultuous journey from the Oort cloud (an icy spherical spot that exists in the Kupier belt) to enter our solar system. Discovered on October 23, 2013 by the Catalina Sky Survey in Arizona, the comet was initially thought to be an asteroid, as it appeared inactive. However, after much observation, astronomers negated theories of it being a rocky, metallic asteroid and confirmed it was an icy comet. It is now visible in the northern hemisphere right before dawn and will stay visible until February.“Due to the pollution in our skies, it will resemble a fuzzy cotton ball and might not sport the general structure of a comet,” says Arvind Paranjpye, Director of the Nehru Planetarium. As of mid-December, the comet was a little fainter than magnitude six (that’s just beyond the range of naked eye visibility). The faintest stars visible in rural areas are usually magnitude five; the lower the number, the brighter an object is. Basic 7x50- or 10x50-range binoculars should help you spot the icy dirtball. Use apps such as Google Sky Map or SkySafari that help to locate celestial objects. Even though Catalina will not display its green tinge through binoculars or a telescope, a long exposure photograph of 30 seconds will do the trick. According to spectral readings, its ion and dust tails have displayed a high level of diatomic carbon (C2). When the gas encounters ultraviolet light in the near-vacuum of space, it turns fluorescent green.As it recently slingshot past the sun after perihelion (its closest approach to the sun), the comet reached a velocity of 1,66,000 kmph; that’s nearly three times faster than NASA’s New Horizons spacecraft as it flew past Pluto. Its journey has required several million years of inbound travel from the frigid fringe to the relatively warmer region of the inner solar system. It’s literally a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to spot Catalina, as it’s following a hyperbolic ejection trajectory out of the solar system, never to return again.Paranjpye suggests that astronomy buffs should travel at least 50-100 km away in the eastern direction for better viewing. Drive to places further away from the city such as Dombivali, Dublapur, or Vanganga and look in the direction of constellation Draco. Make sure you pack a basic 10 x 50 range binocular or telescope for better viewing.It would also help to visit on a night when the moon is still in its crescent phase, or better yet, on a new moon night.The next predicted comet to reach naked-eye visibility is Comet 46P/Wirtanen. However, it’s only assumed to put on a show in late 2018. So, now is our only immediate chance to rise early and admire a celestial guest.“Comets are like cats, unpredictable in behaviour, so it might even flare up and become brighter,” says an optimistic Paranjpye.The author is a freelance writerMake sure you drive to places further away from the city and pack basic 10x50-range binoculars or telescope for better viewing