http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Take-steps-to-ensure-smooth-conduct-of-Paryaya-Sorake-directs-officials/article13975958.ece

Vinay Kumar Sorake, Urban Development Minister, on Friday directed department heads to coordinate among themselves to ensure successful conduct of the Paryaya festival here on January 17 and 18.He was chairing a preparatory meeting for Paryaya festival at the Deputy Commissioner’s office here.Mr. Sorake said that Vishwesha Tirtha Swami of Pejawar Mutt would doing his customary ‘Pura Pravesha’ to Udupi city on January 4. The ‘Horekanike’ processions would start from January 5. The Paryaya festival would be held on January 18. It was necessary to proper traffic arrangements on all these days. The areas for parking of vehicles should be demarcated, he said.The meeting was informed that adequate police personnel, women police and Home Guards would be pressed into service. CCTV cameras would be installed at vital locations soon. A separate control room for monitoring CCTV network would be set up. Efforts would be made to prevent incidents of pickpocket and chain snatching. Twenty-four places had been designated for parking of vehicles in the city, the police officers said.R. Vishal, Deputy Commissioner, said that police should contact the Regional Transport Office if they required more vehicles. He also directed the Commissioner of Udupi City Municipal Council (CMC) to make proper arrangements for drinking water and toilets and to keep the roads in a good condition during the ‘Horekanike’ processions.Dr. Vishal directed the officers of the Mangalore Electricity Supply Company (Mescom) to ensure that there was uninterrupted power supply during the festival. The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) was directed to provide more bus facilities during the festival. The Public Works Department should keep the Inspection Bungalow and helipad ready for the VIPs, he said.The personnel of Fire and Emergency Services were asked to keep their equipments and vehicles ready to meet any contingency. The Health Department was directed to keep ambulances ready to meet any emergency.Raghuram Acharya, Dewan of Pejawar Mutt, said that 600 motorcycles would accompany the Pejawar seer from Palimar at 2 p.m. to Udupi for the ‘Pura Pravesha’ to Udupi on January 4.As many as 55 cultural troupes would participate in the procession which will begin at 4 p.m.The ‘Horekanike’ procession would reach the storeroom at Rajangana parking area at 4 p.m. on January 5. Members of the Muslim community would organise a blood donation camp on January 17, he said.Priyanka Mary Francis, CEO of Zilla Panchayat, was present.