http://www.thehindu.com/news/international/Takeover-of-Oregon-wildlife-refuge-prompts-public-meet/article13986475.ece

Hundreds of residents crammed into a building at the Harney County Fairgrounds here on Wednesday night, far surpassing the capacity of the rows of brown metal folding chairs set up on a concrete floor, to talk in often deeply emotional terms about their community — and just who should be in charge of its destiny.An armed takeover of a federally owned wildlife refuge outside town, into its fifth day as the meeting began, was the context and the reason for their gathering. The protesters have said they acted with elaborate justification in seizing the headquarters buildings of the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge because the federal government, they said, had violated law in creating the refuge and taking land from ranch families.The response to that on Wednesday, during 90 minutes of small-town democracy here in east-central Oregon, was less focused on the U.S. Constitution than on how this one small place can govern itself and defend its values.“You don’t get to come here and tell us how we get to live our lives,” said Sheriff Dave Ward of Harney County, who led the meeting, and the crowd erupted into applause and cheers. “I’m here to ask those folks to go home and let us go back to our lives in Harney County,” he added, again to huge applause.Supporters of the protesters, or at least people who said they supported some of the ideas expressed by the protesters, said they were doing no harm.“They ain’t hurting a damn thing down there,” said Merlin Rupp (80), who said he had just come from the refuge and talked with the group.But most of the night was a kind of love letter to the town and county, as speaker after speaker talked about what, in this sparsely populated county, was worth fighting for and preserving.Some praised the protest group for having forced a conversation about the community that might not otherwise have occurred. The crowd, many in baseball caps and hunting jackets in the chilly room, talked about fears of long-term economic decline, and short term pain as well as schools, government offices, and some businesses have shut down out of safety concerns since the refuge was taken over last Saturday.Economic pain was a clear context. About 1 in 5 residents in Harney County lives in a household with income below the federal poverty threshold, according to federal figures from 2013. The county also has the second-highest proportion of jobs of any Oregon county paying the minimum wage, almost 10 percent.Federal policies, some people said, were clearly to blame. Cutbacks in the timber harvest in the nearby Malheur National Forest beginning in the 1990s, people said, had led to the closure of a wood mill that was one of the region’s biggest employers with repercussions, and anger, that were still being felt. Before the meeting broke up, the sheriff gave no hint as to what the law enforcement strategy would be, except that he hoped and believed there would be a peaceful resolution to the occupation.Mr. Ward, in the community meeting, said he worried about country and the government sometimes himself. “I too have a lot of concerns about the direction our country is going,” he said. “But this is America — we get to disagree with each other without the threats of violence or retribution.” — New York Times News Service