http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Taking-the-classroom-into-space/article13990368.ece

Meet an astronaut, walk inside the space shuttle Atlantis, build a drone, learn about trajectories by playing catch on a rotating see-saw — any youngster is bound to love this kind of experience.Gone are the days when your annual school tour was to Cubbon Park. The Modern Classroom, an initiative by Bengaluru-based Yasin Sharieff and Mehaboobulla Khan of Travelstall, puts together travel itineraries abroad for Indian schools, to help students learn from hands-on experiences.They started off in 2014 with the Presidency Schools and then Delhi Public School and Cambridge Public School came on board with their students signing up. Since then, they have taken over 400 students in the age group of 11 to 17, on a tour of the U.S.A. with the Kennedy Space Centre (KSC) as the core of their programme.Students of the Shree Sarasswathi Vidhyaah Mandheer in Mettupalyam have also been on their tour. In July this year, school students in Dubai and Abu Dhabi are embarking on tours too, says Yasin.Being an avid traveller himself, 27-year-old Yasin, the second generation of the family that runs Labbaik Tours and Travels (which organises Haj pilgrimages), started Travelstall in 2008 as a subsidiary of the company, to sell international destinations. He travelled and worked through his college days before he got into the family business.“I believe travel is one of the best forms of learning. Kids learn how to be independent when in a foreign country, learn time management, and co-operation and work as a team while performing group experiments on these tours,” he says.Manju Balasubramanium, principal of DPS North, who has regularly been sending her students on these programmes, says: “When you travel, you pick up nuances and get rid of prejudices. When you travel together on school trips, students experience collaboration, co-operation, and beyond that, the fun of learning, which cannot be compensated when you travel as a family. It is important that students travel younger so that travel becomes something that they will want as a part of their lives”.At the KSC in Orlando, students get to tour launch sites, have shuttle launch experiences, and of course, meet an astronaut. Moreover, children from other countries too come to the KSC and Indian students get to interact and work with them in groups, points out Yasin.“The three-day programme is complete with getting a certificate from NASA… the kids just love it!”For every 15 students, there is one teacher travelling along from the school. A travelling photographer ensures parents get day-to-day updates in photos and videos of their touring children. As Renu Dimri, vice principal of DPS North points out: “The most important take back from this trip for me as a teacher was that we need to inculcate a more hands-on approach while educating our students. This practical approach used by the educators at the KSC made learning fun and interesting.”Orlando also has America’s best theme parks, so students also get a tour of Universal Studios, Magic Kingdom, Sea World. History is not given a miss — visits to The White House, Capitol Hill, Statue Of Liberty, Empire State Building, Wall street, United Nations, Times Square with local guides is also included in these trips. “And children love chocolate, so Hershey Chocolate World is another favourite stop where they get to see the making of chocolate and participate in a tasting.”Salman Siddique a DPS student studying in class 10, who was on the trip in 2015, says “The trip to NASA has made me believe that nothing is impossible and I never thought learning could be so much fun. I have returned with memories that will last me a lifetime and chocolates that will last me a year!” “The all-inclusive tour of about nine nights costs Rs. 2.50 lakh per person,” says Yasin.Their other itineraries include tours to universities in Scotland and England, culture tours to China, and more. “We have also tied up with the Rickey Ponting Foundation, Gary Kirsten Academy, Hellenic Cricket federation in Greece for cricket tours, where students travel and play local teams to get accustomed to international conditions. We also have tie ups in Sweden for youth football where students travel to play in the Gothia Cup,” adds Yasin.