http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Tales-from-the-hermit-kingdom/article13977024.ece

Kim Song-Yong's resume makes for an interesting read. The footballer was born in Japan, but represents North Korea in international matches. On the club scene, Song-Yong has plied his trade in Japan and Thailand, before moving to India a little over two years ago.It is, of course, his North Korean connection which stands out as the most intriguing aspect of his career. The Asian country has distanced itself from the world stage in recent years, and if most reports are to be believed, is kept under the thumb of the Supreme Leader, Kim Jong-Un. Even the North Korean football team has an air of mystery around them - it is alleged that players are publicly punished if the side fails to deliver in international tournaments.These are fantastical stories, but who better to reveal the truth than someone who has actually lived the life? Song-Yong, who has playedthree matches for North Korea, dismisses talk of facing pressure from the dictator. “Everyone in the country respects Kim Jong-Un, but no,he does not put pressure on the football team. The North Korean team is actually run in a very professional manner, and has some very good players,” Song-Yong, who has signed a one-year deal with Bengaluru FC (BFC) for the 2015-16 season, says.Though born and raised in Japan, the 28-year-old striker feels a strong connection to the neighbouring nation.His grandparents had moved from the Korean empire to Japan, during Japan's colonial rule of Korea in early 20th century.Those who stayed in Japan, and their descendants, came to be called Zainichi Koreans ('Zainichi' translates to 'foreign citizen residing in Japan'). Song-Yong is proud of his heritage."North Koreans have a unique culture. Even though my grandfather came to Japan, he held a strong sense of identity as a North Korean man," he says. It turned out that Song-Yong's father, Kim Kwang-Ho, became the first Zainichi Korean footballer to play for the North Korean national football team.“We are Koreans who live in Japan, so as you can imagine, a lot of people were unhappy when my father became the first Zainichi man to represent North Korea.He faced quite a few problems, but after a few years, he began to get accepted. You can say that my father is a legend in my community,” he says.The tall striker, a third-generation Zainichi Korean, has followed in his footsteps. Song-Yong studied at the Korea University, an educational institution in Tokyo (Japan), but funded by the Government of North Korea. “I don't get many opportunities to travel to North Korea. I go there whenever I'm called up for the national team,” he says.His club career, however, kicked off in Japan. Song-Yong signed for J-League side Kyoto Sanga in 2009, scoring four goals in a total of 33 appearances in his two-year stint there. This was followed by a one-year tenure at J-League Division 2 outfit Thespakusatsu Gunma, as well as a brief introduction to the Thai Premier League with Nakhon Ratchasima FC.In late 2013, Song-Yong's agent informed him of possibilities in India. Shillong club Rangdajied United FC soon welcomed its new foreign player, and Song-Yong responded with four goals in 13 fixtures. Last season, he packed his bags once again and went across town to join Royal Wahingdoh FC.He made his presence felt at Wahingdoh, helping the small club to finished third in the 2014-15 I-League season.His talent in front of goal was spotted by BFC coach, Ashley Westwood. “I first saw Kim in action when he was played for Rangdajied United against BFC (Song-Yong scored in his side's 3-2 win over BFC).He is one of the few forwards to cause problems for our two strong centre-halfs - Curtis Osano and John Johnson. Kim was quite a handful in that match, and that stuck in the mind,” Westwood says. Having let go of Australian striker Sean Rooney at the end of the previous season, the BFC team management found Song-Yong to be the ideal replacement. “Sean was more mobile up front, while Kim is more of a target man. He is a typical No.9, if you like - physical, strong, good in the air, and can score off crosses," the head coach explains. When it is pointed out that another BFC attacker, Robin Singh, possesses similar qualities, the Englishman is frank with his assessment. “Well, we need someone who has Robin's attributes, but scores more goals. In Robin's career, he has not scored enough goals. If a team is to do well in Asia and in India, you need a No.9 to score 25 goals in a season, not 10,” Westwood says.Song-Yong understands that in order to impress the demanding BFC fans and coach, he needs to hit the ground running. The I-League begins in a few days, and the motivation to do well is strong.“I'm a striker, so obviously my main task is to score many, many goals,”he says.