http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/Readers-Editor/Tall-claim-is-not-science/article14003313.ece

If Archimedes, Newton or Einstein were to be proven wrong by an Indian scientist, it would be a front-page story not just for the Indian media but also for the global media. The stature of the scientist would surpass the exalted positions of Nobel Laureates C.V. Raman, Subramanyan Chandrasekhar and Venkatraman Ramakrishnan.This week, the Web platform of this newspaper carried a fantastic story from a news agency, IANS, which stated that a government official in Himachal Pradesh had established the inadequacies of Einstein’s mass-energy equation, generating an avalanche of protest from the scientific community.The agency report, “Einstein’s mass energy equation inadequate, claims Indian researcher”, was a single-sourced, self-promoting interview. It failed to recognise that journalism is a discipline of verification. Bill Kovach and Tom Rosenstiel in their excellent handbook, The Elements of Journalism, explain: “In the end, the discipline of verification is what separates journalism from entertainment, propaganda, fiction, or art. Entertainment — and its cousin ‘infotainment’ — focus on what is most diverting. Propaganda selects facts or invents them to serve the real purpose — persuasion and manipulation. Fiction invents scenarios to get a more personal impression of what it calls truth. Journalism alone is focussed first on getting what happened down right.” It is beyond my means to find out why the agency put out this story that failed all journalistic yardsticks.Editorial judgmentThe editors of the print editions were cautious and refrained from publishing the story. However, the Internet desk suspended its editorial judgment and carried the story. The Internet desk must realise that there are specific norms and gatekeeping processes that govern medical and scientific stories. What applies to the print applies to the Web too, and there cannot be any leeway in terms of quality or in the rigour of the editorial processes.One of the earliest tricky questions I had to deal with was about reports that dealt with miracle medicines. Dr. Ashwin Motha, Assistant Professor, Family Medicine, Christian Medical College, Vellore, drew my attention to two medical stories in which the reporters were uncritical of certain claims and did not qualify them properly. The reports looked like an endorsement of the claims. When this issue was taken up with the Editor, an internal circular on reporting medical news was issued.The operative part of that circular said: “Medical stories should be complete and carefully verified; cutting corners for whatever reason, including competitive pressures, is impermissible. Please run such stories by the Science Editor or senior health writers before pitching them to the editorial desk. Do not mail these stories to the Net. If you are not a designated health reporter in a bureau, all stories on press releases on medical claims must be routed through one of our senior editorial experts and not filed directly by general reporters. If such a process takes time, so be it: a story could be held over to check the claims made.” These directives for medical stories are good signposts for the Internet desk in dealing with science stories.Many reputed science journalists have addressed the question of how journalists can verify if a scientist’s claim is true. William J. Sutherland, David Spiegelhalter and Mark A. Burgman, in their publication in Nature titled Policy: Twenty tips for interesting scientific claims, have given important tips for interpreting scientific claims. Julie Clayton, science journalist and a consultant for SciDev.Net, has a set of guidelines to check the quality of claims and spot the fraudsters. Her suggestions are for reporters, but they are eminently applicable to the desk team handling science stories. Some of her suggestions are: check the quality of peer review, as different journals have different criteria and practices, and the quality of their peer review varies accordingly. Try to find out the limitations of the study: was it too preliminary or too small a sample size to be accepted in a higher quality journal? Be critical if the claim is made in a public statement. How credible is the scientist among his/her scientific peers? Is the scientist based at a recognised scientific institution? How is the study funded? Finding an independent expert to comment is the most reliable way to judge the validity of a study. Be sure of the facts.Science demands evidenceBoyce Rensberger, former director of the Knight Science Journalism Fellowship programme at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a veteran science reporter for The New York Times and Washington Post, while reflecting on science journalism said that science demands evidence. In the absence of evidence, belief cannot be a substitute. He repeatedly stressed that uncertainty is a sign of honest science and reveals a need for further research before reaching a conclusion. “Balanced coverage of science does not mean giving equal weight to both sides of an argument. It means apportioning weight according to the balance of evidence,” said Rensberger.By the time the IANS story was removed from The Hindu portal, it had been shared more than 3,500 times on social media, had triggered a non-debate on India’s intelligence and the West, and had the scientific community seething in anger. Given the reach of the digital platforms, the Internet desk needs to retain its sense of scepticism when it comes to stories that make claims of a breakthrough or a leap forward in science. Mostly, these claims turn out to be a hoax.readerseditor@thehindu.co.in