http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/letters/Talking-about-talks/article13999579.ece

The reported arrest of Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) founder Maulana Masood Azhar does not signal any strategic shift in Pakistan’s dalliance with religious extremism (“ >Pakistan detains Jaish founder Masood Azhar for questioning,” Jan.14). It may not be uncharitable to characterise Pakistan’s action as tokenism because international pressure has been building up on it after the Pathankot attack. The Pakistani state’s deep ties with religious extremism can only be severed by a painful process of re-examining and amending the country’s Constitution that has legitimised a theocratic vision for the country. It is difficult for the Pakistani elites to challenge the existence of extremist groups and their terrorist assets unless the country gets a progressive Constitution that seeks to make Pakistan a modern secular state like Turkey or Indonesia.V.N. Mukundarajan,ThiruvananthapuramApropos the article “To talk or not to talk…” by Rakesh Sood (Jan.14), the developments after the Pathankot terrorist attack suggest that the policy of ‘Talk, wait, watch, talk’ might work this time in dealing with Pakistan. The response of Pakistan to the Pathankot attack is positive, quick and has resulted in some arrests. The news of Jaish-e-Mohammad founder Maulana Masood Azhar’s arrest is certainly a positive development. Also, the comments from Pakistan’s greatest benefactors, U.S. and China, about the attack are pro-India and persuasive. Going ahead with talks in this scenario will only help mobilise world opinion in India’s favour.Y.G. Chouksey,PuneI agree with the author of the article that there is only one way to find a long-lasting solution to the India-Pakistan issue and that is through persistent talks. Hatred breeds hatred, an aphorism that is true for the India-Pakistan relationship as well. We need to understand that both countries, to different degrees, face challenges concerning terrorism and fundamentalism.A logical step for India would be to help its neighbour stand on its own feet. A stable and prosperous Pakistan will lead to a peaceful and safer India. No matter how hard it is or how much time it takes, we should not give in to hatred and should strive for meaningful talks.Divyank singh,Bhopal