http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/Taller-the-building-higher-the-water-charges/article14000089.ece

With the State government issuing a draft gazette notification approving the Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) proposal for an upward revision of pro rata charges for apartments and commercial complexes in the city, the Board is all set to collect the revised charges from February.BWSSB Chairperson T.M. Vijay Bhaskar told The Hindu that the charges had been increased from Rs. 150 per square metre to Rs. 250.50 for individual residential buildings.For apartments and commercial complexes, the existing charges of Rs. 200 and Rs. 300, respectively, have been doubled.The new charges will come into effect after a month when the final notification is published. People have a month’s time to file objections.The pro rata charges are applicable for buildings with three floors and above.All property owners who added more floors to the existing building (third floor and above) after 1986 and had not paid the charges would also be brought under the net.The Board’s infrastructure (water and sanitary lines) is usually planned for ground and first floor.“But when people construct a third floor and more, we have to alter the pipelines to provide services for these additional floors. That involves cost and the pro rata charges are for the additional infrastructure,” Mr. Vijay Bhaskar said.The Board is presently earning over Rs. 100 crore annually through these charges and is expecting an increase in revenue by over Rs. 80 crore through the revised pro rata charges.Go for RWHIf you are one of those who have not adopted Rain Water Harvesting (RWH) in your building, do it at the earliest.Armed with a draft gazette notification that enables the Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board to penalise those who have not adopted RWH, the Water Board will start levying a fine from mid-February.RWH is mandatory for buildings constructed prior to 2009 on sites measuring 60x40 sq ft and above and for those constructed on 30x40 sites after 2009.Of around 55,000 properties identified, more than 48,000 have adopted the system.All apartments in the city with more than 20 flats have been mandated to adopt dual piping system and provide modular sewage treatment plants (STPs) failing which they will have to pay a penalty of 25 per cent of the total water bill.This will increase to 50 per cent after three months, Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board Chairperson T.M. Vijay Bhaskar said.Around 7,200 buildings are yet to adopt RWH.BWSSB’s infrastructure is usually planned for ground andfirst floor