http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Coimbatore/Tamil-Nadu-tops-in-use-of-bio-fertilizers/article14003889.ece

Tamil Nadu is the leader among States in the use of bio-fertilizers, an organic substitute for chemical fertilizers. Data compiled by the National Centre of Organic Farming says that the State produces over 14,000 bio-fertilizers a year.Production of bio-fertilizers can safely be equated with usage because the State produces only as much as it consumes and therefore the State tops the country, says D. Balachandar, Professor, Department of Agricultural Microbiology of Tamil Nadu Agricultural University.Most of the State’s production is from the eight Agriculture Department-owned facilities across the State. Farmers use those bio-fertilizers or bio-inoculants as a substitute for NPK (nitrogen-phosphorous-potash) fertilizer in paddy and a number of crops to increase yield.Mr. Balachandar says that a hectare paddy would require 240 kg NPK and this would cost farmers over Rs. 1,000. If the farmers were to use bio-inoculants, they would spend only a couple of hundred rupees. This is not the only savings, though. The use of bio-inoculants will result in increase in yield by 10 per cent to 15 per cent. This will be additional income for the farmers. The larger picture is that the State will have to spend less on fertilizers and also fertilizer subsidy, says the University Vice-Chancellor K. Ramasamy.The University has calculated that by actively promoting bio-inoculants, the State can save over Rs. 200 crore a year. But the sad part is that farmers use the organic substitute on only 10 per cent of the 5.9 million hectare of cultivable area.Farmers use the bio-inoculants on almost all crops that are cultivated in the State. The Agriculture Department encourages the use in three ways – treating seeds before plantation, administering those on roots and using on soil.To further promote their use, the University is on the verge of releasing the bio-fertilizer that will substitute zinc. Mr. Ramasamy says that the zinc being one of the most important micro-nutrients, it is an important release. And it will further reduce the farmers’ dependence of chemicals.The University is also engaged in research to identify when to administer the bio-inoculants in plant life cycle. It has obtained Rs. 9 crore from the State Government for the purpose and the research will begin in the next two months.The Vice Chancellor says that the research will study the triangular relationship among soil-root-microbe and suggest when and what to apply the inoculant and how much. This targeted administration will increase the yield.