http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/Tapping-the-young-minds/article13999531.ece

Harada begins with a simple example which would resonate in all of us, either as parents or as children: the booming voice of the teacher or mother who says: be sure to clean up after you! Cesar Harada, an inventor and environmentalist says though adults tell kids to clean up, they themselves leave the world in quite a mess.Another legacy of childhood is that you live a protected life with the mess being hidden away from you. Harada believes one should expose the mess to draw upon the creativity of children to find solutions.Towards such an end in mind, Harada, launched an experiment, “…with my students, aged six to 15, we’ve been dreaming of inventing a better way. So we've transformed our tiny Hong Kong classroom into a workshop. And so we started building this small workbench, with different heights, so even really short kids can participate…We collect this plastic and we grind it to the size we find it in the ocean, which is very small because it breaks down…I let the imaginations of my students run wild. And my job is to try to collect the best of each kid’s idea and try to combine it into something that hopefully would work. And so we have agreed that instead of collecting plastic bits, we are going to collect only the data. So we’re going to get an image of the plastic with a robot –– kids get very excited. And the next thing we do –– we do what we call ‘rapid prototyping’.…And we hack table lamps and webcams, into plumbing fixtures and we assemble that into a floating robot that will be slowly moving through water and through the plastic that we have there –– we see the plastic pieces floating slowly through the sensor, and the computer on board will process this image, and measure the size of each particle, so we have a rough estimate of how much plastic there is in the water.”That is how Harada initiated his students to measure/understand water pollution. The next step was to move from a local problem to a problem that was happening far away…his students spotted the water pollution in Sunderbans sanctuary in Bangladesh. As Harada shows a picture of a child dipping a jug into a water which is filthy, he explains that this water serves all purposes including drinking and it is difficult to say what all is mixed up in it.Harada says, “So we built a rough prototype of a spectrometer, and you can shine light through different substances that produce different spectrums, so that can help you identify what’s in the water. So we packed this prototype of a sensor, and we shipped it to Bangladesh. So what was cool about this project was that beyond addressing a local problem, or looking at a local problem, my students used their empathy and their sense of being creative to help, remotely, other kids.”Harada now moved on to a global problem, “…in 2011 there was a massive earthquake in Japan. It was so violent that it triggered several giant waves –– and those tsunami destroyed many cities on the eastern coast of Japan. More than 14,000 people died in an instant. Also, it damaged the nuclear power plant of Fukushima, the nuclear power plant just by the water…and an average of 300 tons are leaking from the nuclear power plant into the Pacific Ocean. And today the whole Pacific Ocean has traces of contamination of cesium-137. If you go outside on the West Coast, you can measure Fukushima everywhere. So I've been going to Fukushima every year since the accident, and I measure independently and with other scientists, on land, in the river …”As parents did not let him take their kids to the spot, he devised a novel method of reporting to them, and later collecting samples from under water which his students and laboratories across the world could study. He says we are still coming to grip with the problem but time has to come to find solutions. The young have to be roped in to find it for, “…they’re going to have to live with radioactivity their whole life…”sudhamahi@gmail.comWeb link: https://www.ted.com/talks/cesar_harada_how_i_teach_kids_to_love_science/