http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/TDP-BJP-combine-to-start-campaign-with-public-meeting/article13990944.ece

The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have decided to hold a joint public meeting at Nizam College grounds in the city on January 12, kick starting the campaign of the alliance for the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections.The meeting, to be addressed by senior leaders of the BJP and TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu, has been planned to rejuvenate the rank and file of the two parties to take on the Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS), and it was aimed at setting the tempo for their nominees to take a plunge into the election mode. As the stage is set for the conduct of elections to the GHMC , the TDP and the BJP leaders held a preliminary meeting to discuss about the strategies that should be adopted to counter the TRS, which is already in an aggressive campaign mode.The meeting was attended, among others, by Union Minister Y. Satyanarayana (Sujana) Chowdary, Telangana TDP president L. Ramana and the party’s Greater Hyderabad in-charge M. Gopinath on behalf of the TDP and BJP Telangana president G. Kishan Reddy, BJP legislature party leader K. Laxman and party MLA Ch. Ramachandra Reddy. The participants discussed about the arrangements for the proposed public meeting and the modalities that should be adopted to make it a success.Senior leaders said that though seat sharing issue figured in the deliberations, no decision was taken on the possible number of divisions each party would contest.The parties would continue the deliberations on the issue and arrive at a consensus based on their strength in each of the Assembly constituency under the GHMC limits.They asserted that the deliberations would continue in the coming days and the parties were focussing more on securing comfortable majority in the corporation. “Winning is the first priority, not the number of seats,” a senior leader asserted.The meeting also discussed about the reservation of wards announced on Friday, and it was felt that backward classes candidates were given a raw deal in the corporation.Though seat sharing issue figured in the deliberations, no decision was taken on the possible number of divisions each party would contest