http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/TDP-seeks-Bharat-Ratna-for-NTR/article14006883.ece

Paying tributes to its founder-president and former Chief Minister N. T. Rama Rao on his 20th death anniversary, the Telugu Desam Party on Monday demanded conferring of Bharat Ratna, the country’s highest civilian honour, on him.The TDP organised a blood donation camp here in commemoration of NTR. This was the first time that the TDP organised the State-level NTR death anniversary in the city. Hitherto, the State-level programme was held in Hyderabad.Addressing the gathering, party national president and Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu said that it was the desire of all Telugus to see Bharat Ratna conferred on NTR. Bharat Ratna to NTR was like honouring every Telugu, he said.“NTR was an inspiring leader. His life is an inspiration and message to the people. There is nothing in this world that would not be successful if you think of him before starting the work,” he said.Pro-poor schemesNoting that NTR was the brain behind the food security programme (Rs.2-a-kg rice scheme) in 1982, Mr. Naidu credited the party founder with several pro-poor schemes such as subsidised power, doing away with patel and patwari system and bringing in mandal set-up. NTR was the doyen of Telugu cinema and later carved out a niche as a political leader of tall order not only in Andhra Pradesh, but also in the country, he said.It may be recalled that the TDP adopted a resolution at its party conclave urging the Centre to confer Bharat Ratna on NTR a year ago.Nimmakuru pays tributeSeveral hundreds of fans of Telugu Desam Party founder and former Chief Minister N.T. Rama Rao on Monday donated blood marking the 20th death anniversary of the thespian.The people of Nimmakuru village, where NTR was born, offered floral tributes at his statue and voluntarily participated in the blood donation camps coordinated by the TDP across the Krishna district. Huge gathering of women was seen at the blood donation camps held at Pamarru.Recalling their bond with the actor-turned-politician, the villagers of Nimmakuru spent the day with his memories and his contribution to the State. In Machilipatnam, Excise and B.C. Welfare Minister K. Ravindra and other senior party leaders paid tributes and offered floral tribute to at the NTR statue at the bus terminus.