http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Vijayawada/TDP-MPs-walk-out-of-meeting-with-SCR-GM/article13988427.ece

Five Telugu Desam Party (TDP) MPs – J.C. Diwakar Reddy, Kesineni Srinivas, Konakalla Narayana, Thota Narasimham and Nimmala Kishtappa - walked out of the meeting on railway projects with the South Central Railway General Manager Ravindra Guptak, here on Thursday.They expressed dissatisfaction that there was not much progress in the implementation of various projects in spite of sanction of huge sums in the Railway Budget. Their main contention was that not more than Rs. 2,000 crore has been released for projects costing over Rs. 20,000 crore in the purview of the SCR.Leading the disgruntled legislators, Anantapur MP J.C. Diwakar Reddy said that these regular meetings were serving no purpose as the railway officials either were passing the buck to their higher-ups on administrative grounds or citing paucity of funds as an excuse for not expediting the projects .“The officials promptly listened to our demands, but they did not give any concrete assurance on the pretext that they have their own limitations,” Mr. Reddy said, adding that they would take up the issues with Union Railway Minister Suresh Prabhu.Vijayawada MP Kesineni Srinivas said nothing substantial has happened after the last year’s meeting with the then SCR GM P.K. Srivastava as only a small chunk of the sanctioned funds were released.“Like in the previous meetings, the railway officials said they will make appropriate recommendations on the pending projects. But, I don’t think there will be any significant movement in the projects”, he told media persons outside the meeting venue. Kakinada MP Thota Narasimham said the MPs expected minimum result but the railway officials showed nothing of that sort. “Why call us for meetings? We came from places as far as Kadapa, Anantapur and Kakinada. What is the point in holding the meeting when the GM could not deliver the basic commitments”, he questioned.Such meetings are serving no purpose as each time railway officials either cite administrative grounds or paucity of funds as an excuse for not expeditingthe projects- J.C. Diwakar Reddy,Anantapur MP