http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Team-player-to-the-core/article13997393.ece

On Monday night he was personally monitoring the conduct of the last league matches of the Hyderabad-leg in the Premier Badminton League at the Gachibowli Indoor Stadium. The next morning when someone tried to reach him, he was out on a motorbike on the Bengaluru streets, to take care of the conduct of the final round of league ties there.This is kind of untiring commitment which separates the 74-year-old K.Ch. Punnaiah Choudhary, Secretary of Badminton Association of India (tournaments), from the rest of his colleagues in the BAI when it comes to holding a badminton event across the country. The best part being that he takes the same care either in hosting the inter-district or the international events to ensure that mostly they are complaints-free.So much so, that it is almost unthinkable to visualise any badminton event without his contribution. But what is the secret behind such energy and organisational skills? “First, I am grateful to have a wonderful team which has rarely let me down, say technical officials who include seniors like P.C.S. Rao, Phani Rao, Girish Natu, Gaurav Khanna. Secondly, there are lot of efforts behind every event as spend hours of planning and delegate specific roles for each official in the organising committee to ensure that there is no overlapping of functions,” explains Punnaiah.“The most important factor is trust. It is imperative you always assign a role to an individual only if you have complete trust in his sincerity and willingness to work,” points out the official who has now organised more than 1000 events at different levels without any major hitch.The unmistakable impact of the organisational skills of the BAI team headed by Punnaiah is that the talent across the country gets a perfect platform from the sub-juniors to the international level. “Yes, there are some instances when because of the huge response we find it tough to finish off the league engagements on schedule, forcing us to extend the evening matches late into the night. We are conscious of this and make efforts to ensure that it doesn’t get repeated,” says Punnaiah.If Hyderabad, or for that matter India, has emerged as the badminton power house, it is not just the players’ contribution; for the best of the talent drifts away if there are no adequate tournaments to perform in .“The other reason for the success of badminton is that we tend to involve many who matter and make them feel important in the success of an event,” signs off a confident Punnaiah.