http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Techno-feasibility-report-on-NIMZ-submitted-to-Centre-for-approval/article13976054.ece

All procedures have been completed to start the process of establishing the State’s second National Investment and Manufacturing Zone (NIMZ) in Chitapur taluk in Kalaburagi district. The State government has submitted a techno-feasibility report prepared by the Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation (IIDC), and after getting the final nod from the Union government, land acquisition work will begin.The process of establishing the first NIMZ in the State has begun in Tumakuru and 5,000 acres of the 12,000 acres required for the NIMZ there has been acquired. The acquisition of the remaining area is under process. Many industries have started establishing their units at the Tumakuru NIMZ.Both the NIMZ for the State was sanctioned by the previous United Progressive Alliance government at the Centre.Joint Director of the District Industries Centre Doddabasavaraj and Secretary of the Hyderabad Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industry (HKCCI) Amarnath Patil told presspersons here on Friday that identification of 12,000 acres of land on Waghdhari-Ripponpalli Inter-State Highway, 5 km away from the proposed airport at Srinivas Saradagi, has been completed. As the land identified was not entirely fertile and was rain-fed, it was best suited for establishing industries. Only around 100 acres of the 12,000 acres was irrigated.Mr. Doddabasavaraj said that the techno-feasibility report has identified automobile industry, a solar power hub, cement-based industries, electronic units as best suited for the NIMZ in Chitapur taluk.It is also ideal for establishing a logistics hub, as it is located close to the airport, and the railway lines were just 10 km away. Finished products can be transported easily from the logistics hub to all over India.The NIMZ also provides opportunities for industrial units to set up their own residential colonies and the Union government provides a five-year tax holiday for industries established there. Besides, the industries established in NIMZ would be eligible for incentives extended by the State government for the industrially-backward Hyderabad Karnataka region.He said that besides the availability of rich raw material, water required was available in the Kagina river with 0.8 tmcft being allotted for industrial purpose.The total requirement for the NIMZ is 1.5 tmcft for which permission would be obtained from the Water Resource Ministry. There was also no shortage of power as excess power generated by co-generation units established in the cement factories can be easily transferred to the industries in the NIMZ.