http://www.thehindu.com/features/kids/Tell-a-tall-tale/article14024634.ece

It was noisy during recess at a kindergarten school somewhere in Zimbabwe. It was also a time when tiny-tots teased each other on their looks and the food they ate.“Hey baby elephant, you are so big and strong. What did you have for breakfast today?” asked a little hyena with a giggle.“Umm… first I had some milk and then I had a dozen mangoes and a sausage,” replied Jumbo.An ostrich chick looked at him with big wide eyes and exclaimed softly, “Oh my, that’s a big breakfast!”Baby elephant’s answer amused the class. They were also curious to know how a vegetarian could have sausages for breakfast. They taunted, teased, mimicked and mocked him till he was in tears.“Oh, well, I don’t know all that. I eat what my mom gives me.”That made the animals laugh even harder. “Hey, why don’t you call a detective to get the answers?” suggested the lion cub.That was just what Little Jumbo did. He called Hopper, Hopper and Hopper Detective Agency and asked for help. Sure enough, the Hoppers were there in a jiffy after a skip, a hop and a jump. Rock, the rockhopper penguin, looked on kindly as the elephant calf narrated his tale of woe.“Don’t worry little one! We will surely find an answer that will satisfy your friends.”“I quite agree with his friends. I think this little fellow is confused,” whispered Rana, the frog detective to Let-it-be.Sausage surpriseThe grasshopper smiled but did not reply. The three detectives set to work. While Let-it-be surfed the internet for clues, Rock and Rana questioned many animals about sausages that elephants ate. No one seemed to know about it. After many hops, they finally came upon Slyboon, a large baboon seated under a baobob tree.The monkey listened keenly, thought for a while and replied, “I don’t know what tall tales Little Jumbo has been telling his friends. But I do know that elephants, hippos and we baboons love to eat the fruit of the moporoto tree. Come with me! I will show you the tree.”The old baboon raced across the forest floor leaping over bushes and running between tree trunks to reach an extraordinarily large tree.“Slyboon had better have an answer, for all the trouble he is putting us through,” mumbled Rana fretfully.The baboon beamed like a tour guide. “This is a moporoto tree. Just look at those large red beautiful flowers that are hanging from its branches. It’s laden with sweet nectar that bats come to drink at night. When these flowers wither and fall off, very large, grey-coloured and tasty fruits grow in their place. Do you know how big they are? Nearly two-foot long and weighs about seven kilos,” he explained with pride.Let-it-be looked at him thoughtfully and asked, “What does it look like? Umm… may be like a large sausage?”“Yeah, that’s right. It does look like a large sausage. How did you know?”“Just a lucky guess,” joked Let-it-be with a smile. He looked at his iPad for more information on the moporoto tree and its fruit. “It is also called the sausage tree after its sausage-like fruits. I guess the little jumbo had these fruits for breakfast. Let’s go back and tell his friends that he wasn’t spinning a tall tale after all.”