http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/Telugu-Odia-populace-join-hands-on-day-of-festivals/article14000552.ece

As a mark of cultural unity Telugu and Odia populace of south Odisha joined hands to give festive look to the region for Pongal and Makar Sankranti celebrations.Sizeable Telugu populace live in Odisha especially in south Odisha districts bordering Andhra Pradesh. Their three-day long Pongal celebrations started from wee hours of Thursday. It was the day preceding Pongal known as ‘bhogi’. At most street corners ‘bhogi’ bonfires provided warm welcome to the dawn of this winter day. Bhogi festivities started with worship of ‘Sankranti Laxmi’ by Telugu families dressed in traditional attires. Offerings in the form of newly harvested rice were offered. Most Telugu houses were decorated with garlands of mango leaves and flowers with decorative rangolis at their entrance.Young girls got together to perform ‘Gobbilu’ rituals which is worship of Lord Krishna through ritualistic singing and dancing. Apart from street corners and temples ‘Gobbilu’ rituals were also performed by group families, who got together at various large open spaces in Berhampur.Participants of this ritual wore new dresses and decorated themselves with flowers and ornaments. They called themselves ‘Gopikas’ and travelled from house to house sharing Pongal festivities.Markets in most urban centres of south Odisha were crowded as families were busy with their Pongal and Makar Sankranti shopping. New Telugu movies were released in most cinema halls in Berhampur, Jeypore, Paralakhemundi etc. Pongal would be celebrated on Friday and the next day would be for traditional ‘Kanuma’ festivities.Odia families were also busy making preparations for Makar Sankranti that marks end of winter and start of movement of sun towards northern hemisphere of earth. There was increased demand for ‘Dhanu Muan’ a sweet delicacy of Ganjam district, which is mostly prepared and offered to deities from ‘Dhanu Sankranti’ to ‘Makar Sankranti’.