http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/Telangana-University-opens-e-resource-centre-for-TSPSC-exams/article13991346.ece

Dozens of coaching centres have emerged across the district with a series of notifications coming for recruitment of various jobs in the State government. Aspirants of jobs are thronging coaching centres and libraries for serious preparation.They, however, seem to be struggling to find relevant syllabus in books and magazine available at the libraries. They find it difficult to get authentic information on Telangana politics, economics, culture and festivals, geography, general history, and history of the 60-year-old agitation for separate Statehood and also on current affairs.The market is flooded with books written by several writers, but aspirants do not feel satisfied with the contents in them. They have been waiting for the books written by eminent writers being published by the Teleugu Academy. Meanwhile, coaching centres are searching for senior faculty members and experts in general studies to engage them in their centres.In a way, students of Telangana University are lucky as they have a beautiful library, which is replete with sufficient amount of material useful for competitive examinations. The library was inaugurated recently and has all kinds of English and Telugu magazines, daily newspapers and referral books.Registrar of Telangana University Prof. R. Limbadri said that there was no dearth of magazines, books and resource persons at the varsity to coach for aspirants appearing for competitive examinations. An e-resource centre was separately developed with the help of the UGC, and students could browse a plethora of magazines in it, he added.Crash courseA month-long crash course with a special focus on TSPSC examinations would be conducted at the centre and experts in each subject would be invited to give coaching.State Higher Education Council is supporting the crash course which is suitably planned for the purpose, and Vice-Chancellor C. Parthasarathi gave a green signal to purchase any number of required and relevant books for competitive examinations, said the Registrar.The centre director G. Bala Srinivasa Moorthy said that at least 150 students were utilizing material every day. “A good ambience with air-conditioning and other facility was created for students,” he added.Others are availing the facilities provided by the District Central Library and Bapuji Vachanalayam for the upcoming examinations.