http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Tell-your-sons-the-real-stories/article13990699.ece

It’s still early in the New Year, but the famous Margazhi coolness is barely perceptible. You only sense it in the early mornings and evenings, when you step outdoors and find yourself welcomed with a wave of freshness that you breathe in deeply and gratefully.In between breaking in a new calendar and trying hard to make resolutions about food, drink and exercise (no success so far), I have had occasion to watch two short films, both about women’s empowerment.> One shows an unhappy mother-wife-homemaker whose in-laws won’t let her take up a job. “In our family, women don’t work,” the mother-in-law says grandly. The woman, who has already turned down many jobs, is eager to try a fresh offer she has received from a top designer. The mother-in-law again puts her foot down. After much mooching and angst-ridden coffees, the woman finally defies the in-laws and accepts the job. The film ends with the husband drawing Durga’s third eye on the woman’s forehead amid a crescendo of defiant dhol beats.The idea behind the film is fine: It wants to give women the courage to break traditional bonds. But the theme and storyline are tired. Worse, by again drawing upon the Durga analogy to define a strong woman, it falls into the same goddess-slut trap that women are trying so hard to break.> The second film does something very different. It shows teenage boys being innocently sexist. One, for instance, hides on a balcony and throws flowers down on a schoolgirl’s head. Another has a phone whose ringtone is a wolf whistle. Their mothers, instead of ignoring these childish pranks, convert it into an opportunity to talk to their sons about sexual abuse. They tell their sons how they have themselves been victims of whistles or ogling or harassment. It makes the boys stop short. Suddenly, when it’s their mothers at the receiving end, they uncomfortably realise that something they saw as innocent fun could easily degenerate into sexual harassment and disrespect of women. The film ends with the message ‘#ShareYourStory With Your Son.’This is exactly what we need. This is the parent-son conversation that is not happening. We don’t need a society that trots out trite bromides that claim a woman is Shakti personified, but watches unperturbed when a Dalit woman is stripped and paraded by upper-caste men. We need a society that will stand up for its women.Today, parents are responsible for perpetuating female disempowerment. Mothers tell sons to rein in their wives. Fathers insist their daughters shrink to the smallest size that society can accommodate. Parents watch proudly when their boy bullies and controls his sister in the name of ‘protecting’ her. Every time a couple in an inter-caste marriage is lynched, it will be the brother doing the lynching in the name of family honour. Nobody will tell him there is no honour in murder.A boy whose mother serves him tea, whose sister washes his shirts, and who was never told as a kid that he cannot pull his classmate’s pigtails or lift up her skirt is another male monster in the making. He might not rape, but he will never be moved to protest a rape either. An overwhelming majority of men on social media insisted that an English girl who had blogged about being flashed in a Mumbai bus-stop was lying because “Indian men don’t do these things”.I am afraid Indian men do. And they will continue to do so, unless somebody tells them otherwise. That’s why films like the one I watched are important. They take the stories to the boys long before they become men.