http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/Telugu-Desam-leaders-join-hands-with-protesting-ryots/article14006860.ece

n what could be termed as an annoying development for the State government, the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) sympathisers have voiced their protest against the master plan of the AP Capital Region Development Authority (CRDA) here on Sunday.CRDA Commissioner N. Srikanth, along with officials, held a grama sabha in the village to explain the master plan but, the villagers, including sarpanch, ZPTC and MPTC members, were in no mood to listen. They asserted that the Ministers and MLAs had shied away from them after the acquisition of lands of farmers.The Ministers virtually pleaded with the farmers to accept the Land Pooling Scheme (LPS) and showered all sorts of promises. Now, none of them were seen.The government, which promised that the returnable plots would be given in the same village, has changed its version. The Jareebu farmers gave their lands only after assurance from the Ministers that the returnable land would be given in Jareebu land only.“Leave alone earmarking of returnable land in Jareebu, the villagers are not sure whether they would get land in their village itself,” they pointed out.Village sarpanch Battula Koteswara Rao and farmer Anumolu Satyanarayana and others grilled the officials. “Following assurance from the Ministers and officials, we prevailed upon the co-villagers. Now, we have to face the ire of the residents with government revealing its true colours. We demand a legal sanctity to what the Ministers and government had promised. If there is a change in guard in future, will the new government honour these commitments?” they asked.Mr. Srikanth said that in States like Gujarat and Delhi, a similar exercise was done with a broad understanding with the farmers and land owners.But, in AP, the government enacted a law. CRDA and LPS guidelines were enforceable at any given point of time, he said.The villagers demanded a Telugu version of master plan for which Mr. Srikanth said that it was being prepared.Following assurance from the Ministers, we prevailed upon the villagers. Now, we have to face the ire of the residents with government revealing its true colours- Battula Koteswara Rao,Uddandarayunipalem sarpanch