http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/letters/Temple-dress-code/article13979271.ece

There are many temples which enforce a so-called dress code strictly, an example being the Guruvayur temple (“T.N. temples ring in dress code”, Jan.2). One needs to welcome the High Court order as, of late, people visiting temples appear to be doing everything other than seeking an audience with god. One often finds loud cellphone talk, and discussions about jewellery and flashy attire causing much discomfiture to other devotees and affecting the divine ambience. One hopes the order is strictly adhered to.E.S. Chandrasekaran,ChennaiWhat should be a welcome sight in a temple often ends up filling me with disgust and disregard for the person in question.Though questions might arise over the link between one’s style of dressing and level of devotion, the fact is that a place of worship is public space. A code will ensure that every visitor receives a standard level of respect. One looks forward to having a similar code in West Bengal.Nabamita Halder,KolkataAs expected, this is a move that appears to have raised the hackles of atheists. However a majority of the devout do welcome such a code, and are of the opinion that it should have been enforced a long time ago. A place of worship is one accessed by the public and a sense of decency and decorum is essential. People who feel that their personal rights are being violated as a result of this step can stay away.B.S. Jayaraman,CoimbatoreThe order to decide on what one should or should not wear is strange. There are quite a few temples in the South where one has to go bare-bodied, so how does a dress code work here? In any religious place, it is one’s devotion and inner state of mind that matter, and not external appearances.Vipin Yadav,TiruchiConcern over the way devotees dress only devalues the importance of the place. Is it not akin to indirectly according importance to ones’s outer appearance when it is one’s inner devotion that counts? In the name of upholding religious values, one’s personal freedom should not be interfered with.Riya James,Pala, Kerala