http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Tenders-floated-for-work-on-Kalaburagi-Airport/article13987404.ece

The State government has set in motion the process to complete the work on the Kalaburagi Airport. Tenders have been floated for a Rs. 71-crore project to extend the runway to accommodate the landing of Boeing airbus and bigger aircraft.The State government had entrusted the work of preparing a detailed project report to RITES. Based on the recommendations of RITES, the work has been divided into two packages. In the first package, the work on extending the runway and others, including the construction of compound walls, will be taken up. In the second package, the construction of the terminal building, Air Traffic Control and other buildings will be taken up.Officials of the Public Works Department told a vigilance committee meeting in Kalaburagi on Thursday that the tenders were floated on Wednesday and the work was expected to begin in April.The meeting was chaired by Leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha M Mallikarjun Kharge.He questioned the wisdom of the PWD in floating a long-term tender for a work which had been completed partially. He said that a short-term tender should be floated for the second package of the works. The total cost of both the packages was Rs. 112 crore.However, as per the detailed project report prepared by RITES, the troubles for the much delayed project were far from over.RITES officials said that an additional 40 acres of land was required for the night landing facility. He said that the issue of a State highway passing parallel to the runway needed to be attended. They said that during the landing and take off of aircraft, traffic on the inter-State highway connecting Waghdhari and Ripponpalli should be suspended.They said that the highway was within the periphery of the runway and it would be dangerous for aircraft to land and take off if traffic was permitted. They said that while the highway was just 270 metres from the approach tunnel of the runway, the ideal distance would be 400 metres. The power cables on the side of the highway should be shifted too.