http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/Ten-thoughts-and-one-theme/article13986378.ece

Kuchipudi dancer-scholar Swapnasundari, revived the repertoire of the hereditary temple dancers in Andhra Pradesh and created a new art form, Vilasini Natyam. As anchor of the 34th and 35th Natya Kala Conferences at Krishna Gana Sabha, she chose off-beat themes. This year, it was ‘The Power of 10.’By her own admission, Swapnasundari wanted to push dancers out of their comfort zone to do some scholastic study for the conference. They were given suggestions for themes but were allowed to choose their own topic.The topics for the truncated four-day conference were varied — from theology, Hindu mythology, literature and the Natya Shastra. The only criteria was the significance of the numeral ten.Parshwanath Upadhye, a promising Bharatanatyam dancer from Bengaluru chose the ‘Dasha Mahavidya’ concept from the tantric, Shakti worship. It was a detailed study of the significance of each Devi and her attributes, as he alternated between the explanation and the presentation.Prefacing each segment with the appropriate Beejakshara mantra, the rich music (Karthik Hebbar, G. Srikanth) was chosen to suit the predominant rasa. The ferocious Kali form in the first segment was presented from the point of view of a bhakta in bhayanaka rasa with a Maha Kali Chakra in tattadavu and nattadavu. Similarly, for the Bala Tripurasundari, the effect was softer, with utplavana and brahmari adavus to add energy as the nine-year old fought with Bhandasura’s 30 sons.Deepti Omchery Bhalla, one of the few senior dancers in the conference, quoted the Dasa Tatvam from the Shabda Taravali, a Sanskrit-Malayalam dictionary. A list of 10 truths, from the Shiva Tatvam to the Brahma Tatvam, the dancer chose to delineate the Nada Tatvam, the aspect of sound. She steered clear of the definitions given by the lakshana granthas, rule books, such as the Sangeetha Ratnakara about sound emanating from breath and fire, and chose to make observations of nada at the metaphysical, philosophical level, as that which is heard through the soul, within yourself.Nada is the sound you hear when you close your ears and concentrate. And how do you make yourself sthiram or steady in this knowledge? By abhyasa, persistent effort.Most interesting was Deepti’s demonstration of Siva’s playing of the Hudukku (later known as Udukku). He was supposed to have played it 14 times, and from the beats emanated 43 varnas, from which evolved present-day Sanskrit alphabets.Sohini Debnath, senior disciple of Kathak maestro Guru Rani Karnaa, was more practical than theoretical about ‘Dasha-Disha.’ She concentrated on the importance of training and felt the Dasha-Disha came into play only in the exploration and extension of Kathak movements in the ten directions. She made an important observation that you have to first set a point before you have a direction.Her demonstration began from a point of stillness with her eyes shut; slowly movement emerged in a poetic unfurling. She demonstrated the same rhythmic structures of thaat, paran, amad, in vilambit teen taal to a lehra in a traditional piece and again within a contemporary production (‘Shunya se’ by Ranan Performance Collective) with unusual seated and lying down movements and South Indian percussion, and both looked and sounded very different.After a short background of Sattriya, how it evolved from the 15th century Ankiya Nat to become ritual dances in Assam’s monastries and to emerge in later times as a solo performing art, Anwesa Mahanta, one of the most popular Sattriya dancers today, detailed the Bhagavatha Dasha Lakshana or the 10 qualities that are found in the Srimad Bhagavatha purana. The list is from Saint-poet Srimanta Sankardev’s Assamese translation of the Bhagavatha. They are: the vision of creation, act of subsequent phases of creation, sustenance of dignity in one’s assigned roles, grace and compassion bestowed on the devotees, karma, rebirth according to karma, incarnation of the lord, returning to godhead through realisation of atma jnana, liberation of the soul, Divinity that bestows ashraya or shelter.This list was given a visual dimension by eminent Guru Ghanakanta Bora and composed in Bhatiyali raag, ek taali and chut kala (7 beats) by Hari Saikia Bayan. Guru Bora was able to simplify the profundity- while creation, role play, etc were presented in a lively tableaux, the effect of karma was shown through the story of King Indradyumna who was cursed and reborn as Gajendra, the elephant-king, who finally gained moksha; rebirth was depicted through the stories of Jaya and Vijaya, Vishnu’s gatekeepers, who were cursed to take three re-births as Vishnu’s enemies. The piece ended with rigorous movements of ‘ananda’ inspired by the celebratory Mela Nach. It was a lot of information packed into a short capsule.Swarnamalya Ganesh, a senior Bharatanatyam dancer and research scholar, based her presentation on ‘Pattupaatu,’ a collection of ten books of poetry from Sangam literature dating 1st - 3rd century. Her area of interest is the socio-cultural setting, with special reference to the arts and their evolution, the artists and their patronage.Swarnamalya re-created Tunangai Koothu, performed by a female tribal leader, Ganika, who was supposed to lead in a dance that induced valour. To this Swarnamalaya added the likely-event of the ganika looking for a mate. The accompanying music was non-musical- flat, disconnected notes inspired by the Near Eastern musical system Darij Maquam and composed by HMV Raghu.The lyrics taken from the Pattupaatu described the koothu and the Tunangai Selvi.The movements including some stamping and twirls were heavy, expansive and without technique; the clicking sounds made to attract the males were intentionally crude. It was an interesting, imaginative guess.Vedantam Rama Linga Sastry, a senior Kuchipudi dance drama artist and playwright, is the Principal of Potti Sri Ramulu Telugu University, Sri Siddhendra Yogi Kuchipudi Kalapeetham, Kuchipudi. He chose the topic Dashavidha Daruvulu, 10 kinds of descriptive songs used in the dance drama tradition — both yakshagana and kalapams. The approximate 2nd century Natya Shastra mentions five: Praveshika (entry), Naishkramika (exit), Akshepiki (changes in progression of events), Praasadhika (to create anticipation) and Antara (during extremely distressful situations such as anger, delusion, intoxication, deep sleep, etc). The 13th century Siddhendra Yogi, the author of the evergreen Bhama Kalapam, and the artist who systematised the Kuchipudi Dance Drama tradition, added the sixth daruvu, Samvada daruvu (conversation).Sastry has added the last four daruvus: Parichaya (when characters introduce themselves), Varnana (when a character or a situation is described), Swantana (expressing empathy between two characters after an untoward incident) and Preyo (expressing love and affection between two characters). He and his students demonstrated the darvus through well-known plays, Usha Parinayam, Bhama Kalapam and his own, Narthanashala, Vinayaka Chaviti and Soundaryanandanam.Sreelakshmy Govardhanan, an up-and-coming Kuchipudi dancer from Kerala, has trained under the eminent Kuchipudi Yakshagana artist Pasumarthy Rattaiah Sarma and dancer-teachers Vyjayanti Kashi and Manju Bhargave. Her topic Manmatha Dasavastha was taken from the dasamaskandam of Srimad Bhagavatham.The Natya Shastra explains the ten stages experienced by a heroine in love: Sreelakshmy drew parallels with another Manmatha Dasavastha sloka, ‘Caksupritimanasanga..,’ references to which are found in the Sahithya Darpanam by Viswanatha Kaviraja and Kadambari by Bana Bhatta. On theoretical comparison, she found that the states mentioned in the Natya Shastra could be considered as the Anubhava (reaction) to the Vibhava (cause) mentioned in the Manmatha Dasavastha sloka. Sreelakshmy demonstrated the Manmatha Dasavastha sloka in the context of a gopi in love with Krishna.Senior, well-known Bharatanatyam dancer Rama Vaidyanathan brought the curtains down on the conference with a powerful presentation on Jeeva Dashaavastha. It was based on a hymn in the Granth Sahib in which Guru Nanak lists the ten stages every human being will go through, which is in essence a long list of desires from an infant desiring mother’s milk to a baby wanting his parent’s attention, graduating to lust, desire for wealth, heath and finally to escape death.Rama dramatised the situation making an embryo the protagonist who relives every stage of previous births with a plaintive refrain, ‘How can I go through the cycle of desire again?’ With a detailed musical pattern ( S. Vasudevan) of a pallavi (Ranjani) and a ragamalika charanam taking off from Suddha Dhanyasi, with related ragas signifying each stage in life, the piece was dramatic and thought-provoking. As Rama said, ‘We need to lament on a life full of desires. How far can we go with them?’