http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/Tension-over-demolition-of-temple/article13992044.ece

Mild tension prevailed here in the town on Saturday after revenue officials demolished a temple which was under construction on the premises of Collectorate near Helipad Park, alleging that it was being illegally constructed on government land.The sprawling Collectorate premises housed the Sri Anjaneya Swamy temple for several decades at one corner near the Helipad Park. When the temple priests suggested that the temple should also have ‘Navagraha’ idols for sanctity of the temple, the locals started constructing an extension to the temple to install the idols of navagrahas.A month ago, the revenue officials warned the organisers of the temple against constructing the structure illegally without any permission from the government. The organisers averred that it was just a small structure and continued with their work and were planning to install the idols very soon.At this juncture, the revenue officials went to the site in the early hours of Saturday and demolished the new construction.As news spread, the local people, corporators of various parties and others rushed to the spot and protested. Immediately, the police rushed to the spot and pacified the protestors.Sensing possible threat, the police reinforced additional forces and fortified the Collectorate office premises and all the vital installations and sensitive spots in the town. Later, Karimnagar legislator Gangula Kamalakar, Mayor S. Ravinder Singh and others held consultations with the officials and arrived at the site and performed Bhoomi puja at the site and pacified the agitators.In the meantime, BJP town president Bandi Sanjay along with his supporters took out a procession. However, the police took them into custody.Condemning the revenue officials’ act, TDP district president Ch. Vijayaramana Rao demanded that the authorities construct the temple at the same site and respect the sentiments of the people. Superintendent of Police D. Joel Davis, OSD L. Subbarayudu, several DSPs, CIs and SIs, district guards and central forces were monitoring the situation.