http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/letters/Terror-at-Pathankot/article13979273.ece

The incident where four terrorists stormed the Pathankot Air Force base (“Terror revisits Punjab after five months”, Jan.3) is an affront to the sincere peace moves India is initiating with Pakistan. Imagine the grave situation had this key base been overrun. The question now is this: are all our strategic installations and military stations safe against such attacks (“Puzzling delays, squandered chances and then gunshots”, Jan.3)? It is not enough on the part of Pakistan to mouth condemnation and express its empathies. It bears the enormous responsibility of identifying and eliminating terrorist outfits operating from its soil.Suryanaryanan S.,ChennaiThe attack is bound to upset every right thinking Indian especially as this comes close on the heels of the December 25 peace initiative by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The incident is both deplorable and a mark of cowardice. It is not surprising that there is a pattern to this every time — of a terrorist attack in India after any peace initiative.Now, questions are wont to be raised about proceeding with talks with Pakistan but it becomes all the more imperative now because the issue of terrorism emanating from its soil can be emphatically placed on the negotiating table.Nalini Vijayaraghavan,ThiruvananthapuramThe bonhomie over Mr. Modi’s Lahore “drop-in” appears to be a short-lived one. The way in which the attack was planned and executed shows that it could not have been done without the blessings and active support of terrorist elements from across the border. What is the point in clinging on to peace parleys when India continues to be wounded and pay such a heavy price?S.V. Venkatakrishnan,BengaluruThis is an attack that has all the markings of another clandestine operation by handlers based in Pakistan. Despite all the vows and talk of strong retaliation by India (“Must discuss terror with Pakistan: Rajnath”, Jan.3), it is becoming increasingly apparent that such statements are not being taken seriously by the Pakistani government. It is just talk and no action. Pakistan has to be held accountable for these attacks.C.V. Aravind,BengaluruThe attack will only strengthen the hands of those who are against pursuing peace with Pakistan. India must persist with a bipartisan approach vis-a-vis Pakistan, of continuing dialogue and being tough on terrorism at the same time. It is evident that Pakistan has no control over terrorist centres on its soil. If it allows a joint operation with India in eliminating these bases, it will lend credence to its protestations that it opposes terrorism in right earnest (“Test of ‘Pakistan’s intentions’”, Jan.3). What is worrying is the ease with which terrorist elements are crossing over into India. We should also be wary of some of our own citizens supporting these terrorists.K.R. Jayaprakash Rao,Mysuru