http://www.thehindu.com/sport/football/Test-of-character-for-young-Indian-team/article13977159.ece

Stephen Constantine’s young Indian team faces its biggest hurdle Afghanistan, the defending champion, in the final of the SAFF Suzuki Cup football championship at the Greenfield stadium on Sunday.The Indian team has blown hot and cold during the course of the tournament sometimes to the point of being mediocre. If the semifinal match against Maldives is taken as a template for India’s campaign so far, it had all the ingredients that pointed to general sloppiness.India allowed Maldives to score two goals and coach Constantine had pointed to the lack of concentration of his players in the second half. Similar errors in defence against Afghanistan will be a disaster.“Afghanistan is a good side. We should be at the top of our game and should not give them any New Year gifts. We shouldn’t repeat the silly mistakes we made in the semifinal. It is as simple as that,’’ he said.However, the Indian coach admitted that Afghanistan will be the favourite in the final. “I would say Afghanistan is the favourite mainly because they have 15 players who play in European countries. There is a huge gap between European players and Asian players. We faced the same problem against Guam. People often ask how come a country with just 90,000 people could beat India? But they have a squad made of players in the US. Based on that I would say Afghanistan is more experienced than us but we are at home playing in India. I hope the crowd would come to watch us and we hope to use that to our advantage,” he said.The entry to the final was something which was in the coach’s mind at the start of the campaign. But having reached there, Constantine said his boys would make their opponent work hard for victory.“It is a fantastic achievement for the young team to get to the final. Afghanistan is not unbeatable and we will fight from the first minute. If we play to our potential and if they have a bad day we can win,” said the coach.ProlificStanding in India’s way is the formidable Afghanistan side which has pumped in 16 goals against its opponent. Not only is Afghanistan powerful but also is intimidating as well. However, a pattern has emerged where the team has struggled against opponents who have refrained from playing an open game.Bangladesh and Sri Lanka managed to keep Afghanistan quiet using defensive tactics. But overall quality and bench strength have enabled Afghanistan to make strong comebacks in both the matches.More than set pieces, it is individual brilliance of its players that has made this team a class apart from its rival. Khaibar Amani (four goals) and captain Faysal Shayesteh (three goals) are the prominent scorers for Afghanistan.Indians will be wary and would have noticed the vulnerability of their opponents.Captain Faysal Shayesteh was confident of his team winning the title but the normally outspoken coach Petar Segrt dwelled on the pressure of playing the host in a hostile atmosphere.Pressure often plays an active role in shaping the outcome of finals and it will be a test of character for the young Indian team.