http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/THANK-YOU-THIRUVANANTHAPURAM/article14020708.ece

here they were on stage — a group of girls dressed most charmingly in black and gold. It was well past midnight on Saturday, but there was still a big crowd at the Putharikandam Ground.They began to narrate the legend of Swami Ayyappan through their graceful movements. The crowd was floored. They cheered every time the girls presented some particularly pleasing steps, beautifully in sync.And the crowd had to applaud several times right through that presentation by Ambili Unnikrishnan and party of Silver Hills HSS, Kozhikode, in the Group Dance competition in the Higher Secondary category. That was undoubtedly one of the most memorable performances at the 56th State School Arts Festival, which concluded in the capital on Monday. A few hours later, it was time for Ambili and her fellow-dancers to celebrate: they had won the first prize. Like them, there were several other talented boys and girls who enthralled the capital city for a week.The standard of competition was pretty high in many events. Like the light music contest for higher secondary girls.You may not be able to say the same thing about the mimicry competition in that section. Yet, it featured a remarkable show, by N. Raveena from Kozhikode, who delighted and surprised the audience by her imitation of politicians, among others. She, incidentally, had come first last year too.You could also find talents in several other disciplines, including classical dances and instrumental music. They made the past one week a memorable one for art lovers in the capital and beyond.And people came in large numbers to watch the young artistes – there were 12,000 of them – after the first couple of days. Not surprisingly, it was group dance that attracted the biggest crowds. Drama, too, was a big hit, once again. But, there were also many takers for less glamorous events, such as Chavittu Natakam and Koodiyattam.The festival also had its share of controversies. Not surprisingly, the judgment in classical dances was a major talking point. There was even an ugly episode of a group of dance teachers and parents raising protests against the Mohiniyattam judges.There were problems at quite a few venues too. Some events had to be moved to other venues. And there was a flood of appeals, too. But, before pointing fingers at the students who came to participate armed with orders from courts and elsewhere, it should be remembered that many of them could have been denied justice at district-level festival. And they proved their point too, by winning prizes in several events.Many of them must already be looking forward to Ernakulam, where the next edition of this magical event will be held. But for now, it is ‘Thank you, Thiruvananthapuram’.