http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/That-healing-touch%E2%80%A6/article13986456.ece

Since several research organisations are working on the therapeutic value of the Indian classical music, many are now aware of it as an interesting subject. But very few care to know that the healing touch of music was widely accepted even in ancient India. That is why purity of notes and clear enunciation of lyrics were mandatory during singing sessions. This also led to singing of Vedic hymns with hand movements which synchronised with the note-patterns and helped remember them in an era when shruti and smriti (listening and memorising) was the only way out.Eminent vocalist Nagaraj Rao Havaldar’s keen interest in music therapy as a subject came to the fore during a discussion recently. He was in Kolkata to give back-to-back recitals at Bharatiya Bhasha Parishad and Indian Council for Cultural Relations. Apparently Kolkata has a soft corner for Hindustani classical vocalists hailing from Karnataka region and Dr Havaldar is one of them. His soulful renditions, including one morning session based on ‘Bhairav ke Prakar’ (different kinds of raga Bhairav) proved why!Blessed with a robust and melodious voice, he very dexterously blends the best characteristics of Kirana’s southern stream and Jaipur gharana’s rhythm-based thrill. A proficient teacher, he also makes an extra effort to educate his listeners with interesting anecdotes and mythical fables connected to classical music. ‘Therapy’, according to Dr. Havaldar, ‘is very much an integral part of music.’Usually practicing musicians remain focused on performance oriented facets of music. What introduced you to this therapeutic aspect?Apart from my doctorate in music from the Karnataka University I also did my Masters in History and Archaeology. While studying the subjects I realised that music was an essential part of the total social structure in ancient India. Even during the ‘Dharma Yuddha’ (war that followed ritual-like regulations) music played a vital role in commencement of a day of action and its closure in the evening. It was the music which decided when to draw the swords and when to pull back. At times the signal would compel a warrior to pull back despite having the enemy under his knife.Later, while the generals took stock of every move of the day and assessed the gain and loss, musicians would try to sooth the high-strung nerves of all. During peace times as well the tensions of administrative works would get alleviated through court musicians. Their presence in the courts was not merely ornamental or to satisfy the ego of the rulers. This fact was too intriguing and I began working on the subject with all sincerity. I began conducting lecture-demonstrations and workshops regularly for well-known corporate personnel on topics like stress management through music and appreciation of Hindustani classical music.What is your latest venture?Supported by a Bengaluru-based organisation, I am working on a project with an aim to record a few ragas belonging to the time scale theory-based all the eight praharas of the day. This will be of 10-minutes duration each, with a purpose of guided listening for children who are unable to cope up with the stress of adolescence, one of the most difficult phases of life on both personal and academic levels. We intend to play these records in different venues like parks etc. to encourage and initiate them into listening to classical music. We decided to keep these audio sessions short lest they become restive. Once this habit is inculcated, we intend to study the difference in their behavioural patterns.You are a successful guru, having trained your sons so well. Don’t you have any plans to train such distressed children?Yes, my son Omkar is a vocalist, Kedar is a tabla player and Chaitra, another brilliant disciple, is an established playback singer. I do teach three girls between the age of 25 and 30 years, who suffer from schizophrenia. Music is helping them, albeit not the way medicines work instantaneously! But they look forward to their music classes, excited to take lessons and practice on their own. They are happy and behave better with their close associates now.On this optimistic note, the erudite vocalist with a special mission signed off.