http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/business/There-is-always-hope/article13981559.ece

A former board member of a top bank in Greece, Joanna Kouna decided that she had come to the end of a circle with the corporate world about a year ago, and has since been on a quest to unlearn some things and learn others.Ms Kouna shares her thoughts on what makes the journey a unique experience, the contrast she sees with the economic situation in Greece, and what lessons she may take back with her.Tell us a little bit about how you came on this journey?For my entire professional career I have been in banking. For the first 20 years in various countries and after that in Greece. After 30 years, I felt that the moment had come for me. I had completed the circle of banking and there was nothing in it that excited me any more. So I decided to quit and embark on a new journey.That fits in well with his journey because what I wanted to do was to reconnect with people from my past. And Shashank Mani, who is the founder of the Yatra, is a classmate from the university and he always spoke very passionately about the experience. I didn’t have time before, but now I felt it was the ideal time to come for the journey.What do you find most interesting about the Jagriti Yatra?I am seeing everything now from a foreigner’s perspective and it’s interesting for me, especially, coming from Greece, which is going through an economic crisis and will take long to tide over it. Everything there seems to be shrinking and everyone is talking about how there are no opportunities and people are leaving the country in search of jobs. In India, I see only growth and everything you touch seems to have much potential and opportunity. It’s interesting because in Greece we have skilled resources with no jobs, but in India you have the opportunity for growth, but not enough skilled resources.The other part is to see and interact with so many young people who are talking about building India. And the way they go about it is a little different from the world in which I come from, the western model, which is all about making profit. Here profit is one thing while people are talking about helping others and there is maybe also a spiritual angle. So that I think is more sustainable in the end.What strikes you interesting about the role model entrepreneurs that the Jagriti Yatra has visited?For me it is amazing to see people who are already running successful businesses talk about welcoming competition. The Aravind Eye care in Madurai talks about teaching other hospitals in the country so that they can enter the business. They say there are so much to do and not enough resources to tackle it all, so they welcome more companies. That for me is amazing.What are the messages from this experience that you will take back to Greece?One message is at the end there are always opportunities. Some of the challenges that our two countries face are very similar. In Greece, there is also a high level of corruption. But over there, there are no such initiatives to bring young people together and talk about doing things in an alternative way. In a way I feel Greek people have given up. But I would like to go back and talk to my own circle of friends and tell them about my experiences here. And tell them that there is always hope.