http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/The-sound-of-science/article13980811.ece

If you thought an image could speak a thousand words, you haven’t heard about sonification. A process created by U.K.-based professor and composer Dr. Domenico Vicinanza, sonification creates sound out of information and data. Domenico, a senior lecturer and director of the Sound And Game Engineering (SAGE) Research Group at Anglia Ruskin University, says over e-mail, “Sonification is all about making information and data audible.”A music composer even before he was a scientist, Domenico made headlines last year when he used data collected from the Large Hadron Collider (LHC), which found evidence of the Higgs Boson particle (The God Particle), and created music. Using graphs from experiments conducted at Large Hadron Collider in Geneva, Domenico and his team converted energies of particle collisions into musical notes based on graph readings. He adds, “The LHC data sonification was based on the idea of mapping physical parameters like the energy of the particles to pitch and loudness.”Domenico has since gone on to work with NASA, mapping Earth’s images to sound and even performed it live. Excerpts from an interview with Metroplus:What was your performance at the Supercomputing conference SC15 in Austin like? How did you prepare for it?The performance was a live concert at the NASA and GÉANT booth at SC15. A guitar player (the CERN physicist Piotr Traczyk) and a percussionist (myself) played live scores coming from mapping Earth images to sounds. The images were from the DSCOVR (Deep Space Climate Observatory) satellite that was launched in February this year from Cape Canaveral in Florida and has NASA’s Earth Poly-chromatic Imaging Camera (EPIC) on board.For those not in the know about sonification, tell us how it was conceptualised and put into action. What kind of music gear or software did you use, if any?In this specific case, sonification works by attaching a musical note to each pixel of the Earth image coming from the satellite.Continued on Page 3