http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/The-Hindu-Young-World-Quiz-is-back/article13983443.ece

Talented young minds from various districts of North Karnataka will gather in Hubballi on January 7 to test their quizzing skills at The Hindu Young World Quiz.An integral part of The Hindu in School (THiS) programme, The Hindu Young World Quiz of Hubballi region will be held at the Samskrutika Bhavan at New Cotton Market (near the Traffic Police Station) here.It is 16th edition of the quiz being held at 14 cities across the nation and Hubballi is one among them. Thousands of schools from 19 cities across the country have been part of the earlier editions of the quiz.Already, several schools from Hubballi, Dharwad, Belagavi, Ballari, Hosapete Vijayapura, Bagalkot, Gadag, Haveri and Davangere have confirmed their participation. The quiz will begin with a written preliminary round at 2 p.m. and the top six teams will be chosen based on the marks they score for the on-stage final round of quizzing. The quiz is open to students from classes VII to IX.The quiz is hosted by The Hindu ’s quizmaster V.V. Ramanan.RulesA team will consist of two members from the same school. Any bona fide team from a school can participate in the event by sending mail tohblcirc@thehindu.co.in. Spot registration is also permitted.Free registrationThere will be no registration fee for participating in the event. The participating teams are requested to report at the venue by 1 p.m. on Thursday for spot registration.Winner takes it allParticipants and the audience will have an opportunity to win gifts and goodies. The winners will receive a trophy, a bicycle and certificate. The first and second runners-up will receive trophies and certificates. All participants will receive a Goodie bag and a certificate.SponsorsThe Hindu Young World Quiz 16{+t}{+h}Edition is powered by State Bank of India. Firefox is the national prize sponsor; KOKUYO Camlin is the Goodie sponsor and Byju’s is the regional sponsor.KLE Society’s BVB College of Engineering and Technology is the associate sponsor and JBM Industries is the gift sponsor for Hubballi region.For more details and assistance for registration, call Appanna Metri on Ph: 9449281773, 0836-2333703/ 2333704).To subscribe to The Hindu Young World, log on towww.thehindu.com/ youngworld.