http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/The-sound-of-home/article13994097.ece

For the members of four-man band Oorka, the world is literally their stage. Shakespearean to the boot, they travel like wandering bards, armed with their instruments, and lyrics of love, loss and grief. There are no planned venues or sets, and they spontaneously perform everywhere — from villages and suburbs to heritage sites and sandy beaches. The band, formed in 2014, had its origins in a “community of musicians,” says its lead singer Bharath Sankar. “There was always some music being played… forming a band felt like the natural next step.”The band, whose journey began in Kotturpuram, thought differently from the beginning. Instead of usual venues, they set out on an alternative route; from performing at the usual venues and arenas, they set out on a coastal tour from Chennai to Puducherry, playing wherever they could, and drawing in intrigued audiences.Their method is unconventional, but for the band, it’s become a way to engage with their listeners at a different level. “Music shouldn’t be presented by middlemen, which is why we want to reach out to people directly,” says Bharath.Their debut album with nine tracks is to launch on January 26, in flood-affected Mudichur. The band, which describes its sound as Tamil retro rock with vintage tunes, says they are trying to introduce a new kind of sound and thought. The lyrics are all based on everyday events. Says Bharath, “We don’t sing about fantasies; our songs reflect what we feel. We’ve written about everything from greed to love…” So far, their impromptu concerts have been met with more enthusiasm than resistance, even from those in authority. “While bigger sets and acts need permits to perform in public, we don’t, since we only have a few acoustic instruments. We don’t disturb traffic.”Oorka, says Bharath, besides being quirky, also contains within it the Tamil ‘oor’, or place. “That’s what we’re about — going back to roots and native music. Our music is not about revolt. It’s about expanding horizons,” says the band.