http://www.thehindu.com/sport/cricket/The-return-of-the-native/article14132852.ece

Considering that >he has won the biggest battle there is to win in life, it might be tempting to suggest that Yuvraj Singh won’t really be feeling the pressure to perform on the cricket field, but that is a simplistic and naive point of view that is far removed from reality.What Yuvraj went through in the immediacy of the 2011 World Cup, where he played a massive role in India’s charge to the title, is well chronicled. I remember how difficult it was for me to bounce back from a career-threatening rotator cuff injury to my bowling shoulder.But I can’t even begin to imagine what Yuvraj’s state of mind and body would have been as he battled a rare form of cancer.To come back from there to lead a normal life is a huge achievement in itself. >To return to professional, competitive sport in the manner in which Yuvraj has done speaks volumes of his commitment, desire and determination to cock a snook at anything life might test him with.I was particularly delighted to >see him tee off on Tuesday night against Sri Lanka. It was the Yuvraj we all know and love. The strut of old was back even before he struck Rangana Herath for the first of his three sixes.High-impact players such as Yuvraj need only a subtle shift in mindset to impose themselves on the opposition. Like many others, I was surprised that he was brought back into the Indian Twenty20 team at the start of the year when they travelled to Australia.But the more I thought about it, the more it looked a fantastic decision by the selectors. Yuvraj might be getting on in years, but there is a huge role for experience even in the 20-over game.Popular player>Yuvraj is one of those players who has the backing of everyone in the team and several from the opposition too. People are genuinely happy when he scores runs and takes wickets, because he provides such inherent joy when he is on song. I am very happy that both on the personal and professional fronts, he is now in a happy place.Historically, India’s successes in World Cups have been linked to superb performances by the talismanic left-hander. Who can forget his s >ensational assault on Stuart Broad in the 2007 World T20? As if six sixes in an over weren’t enough, he then smashed 70 off 30 deliveries in the semifinal against Australia, showcasing an affinity for an attack that he took to the cleaners in his first international hit, during the ICC KnockOut Trophy in Nairobi in 2000.He was the driving force behind the 2011 triumph with runs and wickets even though he spent much of the tournament throwing up and feeling weak and physically out of sorts. His journey through that tournament was a classic case of mind over matter. No one deserved the plaudits more than Yuvraj at the end of that memorable night at the Wankhede.Of course, not for nothing is cricket a great leveller.For someone who revels on the big stage and who is energised by the magnitude of the occasion, Yuvraj must have felt particularly deflated after his 21-ball 11 in the final of the last World T20, against Sri Lanka in Dhaka.In many ways, this latest stint in the Indian team is what he believes is his shot at atonement and redemption. And if he can use that unpleasant memory to rouse himself one more time in a format that is right down his alley, India will have plenty to cheer about a month from now. — Chivach sports / Hawkeye Communications