http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/The-story-of-stones/article14001648.ece

That could it have been about a strange circle of prehistoric stones tucked far away in the English county of Wiltshire that made me brave a chilly day in UK for a mere glimpse of the unusual? Some said I must go to Stonehenge, others said, its just stones. I left it to my discretion then, whether I would consider this World Heritage Site (declared so in 1986), a monument of mystery or merely stones. And so the bus tour to Windsor, Bath and Stonehenge.While Windsor and Bath had history written all over them, Stonehenge was history itself – an ancient exceptional survival from a prehistoric culture. After a brief stopover at Stonehenge Inn along the Stonehenge Road for lunch, the much anticipated first glimpse of the monument came through the rain splashed window of the bus. There was something magical about that cold, cloudy afternoon. The dark grey skies and the drizzle lent a mystical view to the site as it unfolded before our eyes. And as the stones came into full view, you realized that what stood before you in a wondrous glory was a monument that had been so frequently featured in pictures across the world. I stood transfixed unable to fathom that I had actually come face-to-face with an outstanding prehistoric monument that I had so wanted to see but never thought would.And despite the extreme cold and chilly winds, the excitement was palpable. Said to have evolved between 3000 BC and 1600 BC, the exact purpose of the monument remains a mystery. Armed with audio aids, as we scampered towards a closer look of Stonehenge, the wind threatened to blow us away. Was this the mystique of the monument? We wondered. Despite the sashaying breeze that pulled us back with every step we took to take a whole big round of Stonehenge, we managed well. And then out of the dark sky, sun shone very brightly for a few seconds to give us the perfect picture of the monument.The vast green pastures that surround Stonehenge add to its aura giving it a sense of fascination beyond words. And so it is not just the stones, their shape, sizes, and colours, but the entire setting that makes it an enigma that it is.The urge to run forward and touch the stones is strong but a barricaded pathway gives a strict no-no and you are forced to walk along the same.Even as the entire group of tourists eagerly listened to the audio guide, for me it was more important to see and feel the stones and capture the moment in my mind and heart forever. And so as the sky changed colour every few minutes, I saw the stones mesmerizingly change hues. It is with awe that I gazed at the set of stones so casually and yet so artistically placed.And soon it was time to leave. It had stopped raining. Hundreds of birds perched on the wooden fence that lead to the monument, took flight.The world around these stagnant stones moved, changed, turned and twisted. But Stonehenge remained. Silent. Stoic. Static. In all its splendour, sanctity and sobriety.