http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/The-star-bows-out/article13995944.ece

In just two days of releasing his 25th album Blackstar, iconic artist David Bowie succumbed to cancer at the age of 69.While the year has not been kind on music legends – taking away the likes of Stone Temple Pilots original lead singer Scott Weiland and Motorhead frontman Lemmy Kilmister – there couldn’t have been a better way for the king of kookiness, once Ziggy Stardust among several personas, to bow out.On his final album, Bowie followed up fairly quickly and suddenly, just like his surprise comeback album The Next Day, in 2013. As much as it is entirely original, fans might have heard bits and pieces before – his 2014 singles “Sue (or in a Season of Crime)” and “Tis a Pity She was a Whore” being slightly retooled and “Lazarus” coming from the musical he produced of the same name. Even then, in his five decades of music, Blackstar might as well get the tag of his weirdest album. And this is Bowie we’re talking about.With the help of his producer and co-writer Tony Visconti and a group of New York jazz musicians, Blackstar becomes more experimental, but remains in the realm of Bowie’s aesthetic of being moody like few others. It might confuse you at first, but the calming 10-minute opener “Blackstar” is Bowie at his eccentric best. He enlists greats such as guitarist Ben Monder and drummer Mark Guilliana, along with saxophonist Danny McCaslin, but there is as much attention to detail in his lyrics. On “Girl Loves Me”, Bowie picks up A Clockwork Orange’s vocabulary called Nadsat as well as Polari, a slang language from 1970s London’s gay clubs. If you catch him making sense, he’s not doing it right. There’s a sweet sax solo that carries through “Dollar Days”, punctuated by Bowie’s moan of “I’m trying to…” With the closing “I Can’t Give Everything Away”, it almost sounds like a Bowie outtake from the 1970s, the voice that made songs like “Heroes” popular almost reanimated over electronic beats. He leaves with a poignant summation, perhaps of his own life, with “Seeing more and feeling less/Saying no but meaning yes/This is all I ever meant/That's the message that I sent.”This message will surely resonate for decades to come, and hopefully Blackstar will find its place right up there with The Rise and Fall of Ziggy Stardust and the “Spiders” from Mars and Aladdin Sane.