http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Theatre-being-the-changemaker/article14015933.ece

The play opens with a young Hindu boy, who is hungry but cannot eat as it is Vaikunta Ekadasi and his mother has not packed him any tiffin. His friend, a Muslim boy offers him biryani. The Shastri household is miffed with the act and pick up a fight. The situation changes when Shastri meets with an accident and the Muslim neighbour comes forward to donate blood. This was part of a play presented by young students of Abhyasa School on its annual day. From religious intolerance and science without humanity to education without character… the youngsters depicted contemporary topics.Theatre sceneThe theatre scene for youngsters is witnessing changes as experts help youngsters choose contemporary subjects and enact on stage. Now, with the focus on current themes and socially relevant theatre, the stage coaxes the young brigade to ponder and act.“The interesting feature of the performances was that the students themselves wrote the storyline, dialogues, made the props and worked backstage. This way, they internalise it. ‘Let’s not be part of the blame game. Let us be the change’ was the focus,” points out Vinayak Kalleetla, founder principal of the Abhyasa school. The onus, he says is to make them aware and socially responsible. “Earlier, the bifurcation of Andhra Pradesh was narrated with a performance wherein the teenagers showed what happens when a joint family breaks,” he adds.That theatre is a great educator is a known fact. It helps build a child’s confidence, communication skills and personality. Suzanne Patel of Mint Tree Creatives recalls a performance where environment was the centre piece of a production. “It was a small group and our faces were painted; accordingly the costumes were made. We highlighted the need to save the environment with trees and a wood cutter,” she recalls.Importance of techniquesTechniques too play a major part as theatre personalities make use of them in the workshops to put across a point. “With Forum Theatre techniques, children find a creative and constructive way of expressing concerns that occupy their minds and lives,” observes Vaishali Bhisht and adds, “Reading books about these (contemporary) issues is beneficial albeit in a different way than doing a play may be. When children do a play about such concerns, they explore the issues in more personal ways by virtue of the fact that they engage as characters in a story, thereby inhabiting the reality with their entire self: body, mind, voice etc. This type of engagement leaves a more enduring impact in terms of the children retaining and understanding the information.”Communication is the keyKatkatha Puppet Arts Trust’s ‘The Little Blue Planet’ staged last year used puppetry to explain the environmental issues that plague the planet. “One does not do theatre for messages. The idea is to have an experience,” states Anurupa Ray. She adds how the group’s agenda has been to never set an agenda before a performance. “I don’t think we ever set art with activism. The idea is to communicate; it could be relevant or irrelevant. We never start by saying we will make a socially relevant production,” she smiles. Experts agree how theatre is engaging for children and its education is well received.Rammohan Holagundi and Sowmya Ram of Nishumbita ballet and theatre group share an example from Old city. “A young boy Jawed threw stones on the team, which performed a street play on communal harmony. The NGO coaxed Jawed’s parents and made him join the same team under Ram. Jawed has transformed and has chosen IT as his field of work now. He lives in the same place but still is part of the positive lifestyle he was introduced to.” The change is clear and positive, they affirm.“Children reciprocate well to positive things spoken and shown through theatre as they have less apprehension regarding the actual world and its deeds. We regularly get feedback on incidents where children have inspired their parents on environmental issues or following traffic rules. In some cases, children have handled parents’ divorce well and show high levels of emotional quotient.”