http://www.thehindu.com/features/magazine/The-Taj-of-Turkmenistan/article13977085.ece

It must have snowed overnight, I think, as I look out of my hotel window. But once I’m more awake, I realise that it isn’t snow I see but the Taj Mahal of Turkmenistan. After taking over from the previous dictator Niyazov, who died in 2006, President Berdimuhamedov decided that his capital should represent the purity of his country’s soul and all buildings must be white. Since then, about 543 buildings, stadiums, government offices, hotels, apartment buildings, and supermarkets have been built in marble (a Guinness record). Even traffic lights in Ashgabat are painted white (thankfully the lights still blink red, yellow and green). The Taj Mahal comparisons extend to fountains and flowing canals that are also built in marble, and despite the sub-zero degree chill in the air they are a thrilling sight. Even the golden statue of President Berdimuhamedov in Ashgabat city centre sits atop a white marble mountain, surrounded by fountains. As a result, the impression of Ashgabat valley from a height is that of a city covered in snow, with speckles of gold painted doors and windows the only relief. I ask our guide and minder Jamilie if she doesn’t miss colour, given the rich and vibrant hues of Turkmen artwork and attire, from the red caps, and velvet gowns that are traditionally worn here. Jamilie pauses hesitantly, then says, “No, white is our country’s favourite colour.”At night, though, Ashgabat turns into a riot of colour, as all buildings light up in different hues, and the shiny white marble is splashed with a full palette of purple, blue, green and red. Turkmenistan is loaded with energy, and the city of Ashgabat is ablaze with its riches. Citizens haven’t had to pay an electricity, gas or heating bill for more than a decade. With the world’s fourth-largest reserve of natural gas, and sizeable oil reserves, this country of five million people in a state just over the size of Rajasthan can afford to keep lights going through the long nights here. In that sense, new Ashgabat, as this wondrous new city is known, is a blend of Soviet-style staggeringly sized buildings and monuments, with the glitz of the Gulf thrown in for glamour.Notwithstanding his love for white and staid marble buildings, President Berdimuhamedov is a rather colourful character. He is the law in Turkmenistan, and must often have to consult himself, given that he is the President, Prime Minister and Chief of the Armed forces. Parliament in this single party republic has also named him the Arkadag, or Patron, of the country. A former dentist by training, he flashes his perfect set of pearly whites from big photographs everywhere: billboards, hotels, restaurants, libraries, and we have breakfast under his cheery smile too. Books he has authored or edited are everywhere, as he writes on a range of subjects from Turkmen culture to breeding horses to healing powers of medicinal plants. He is a health-fanatic, who runs, rides, and exhorts his countrymen to be fit too. President Berdimuhamedov goes a step further in spreading the message than most leaders would, and is frequently seen participating in athletic and equestrian events, which he wins of course. In a particularly sharp piece, The Guardian’s horse-racing correspondent once described a race in Ashgabat where the president won thus: “As his rivals strangled their mounts early on and finally let them go as the president crossed the line….” No prizes for guessing who won 2015’s Alfa Romeo motorcar race as well.In line with the push for fitness, Turkmenistan has a ban on smoking in public spaces, and a ban on any advertising or gifting of tobacco products. The ban in place since 2000 has had an impact: only eight per cent of Turkmens say they smoke.But that’s far from being the only restriction in the country. Since 2003, Turkmen men cannot have long hair, or a beard and moustache. That sounds unusual for a country of five million of which 89 per cent are Sunni Muslim, but it is strictly followed. Women too are discouraged from wearing the burkha or hijab in this Central Asian country, but wear colourful headscarves instead. A local journalist told me that while these measures seem to be aimed at countering Islamist radicalisation (neighbouring Tajikistan doesn’t allow anyone under 18 to attend mosque prayers), the official explanation is that residents should live in communities rather than being ‘individualistic’. The internet is also heavily regulated, and many media sites, including social media platforms such as Twitter and Facebook cannot be accessed. It is another matter that like in China, these firewalls are easy to circumvent with a simple VPN connection.Foreigners are another group under strict watch, and expats tell me they have a 10 p.m. curfew, after which they must stay in their hotels or homes. They also have to register their cars, and can’t get into other cars without prior permission. They are also not allowed to have any ‘personal’ contact with locals, and can only meet them on business or official work. As visitors, we find very few locals anywhere, and none that want to stop and chat. Most buildings seem empty, and restaurants closed, which make the colourful lights that blink all night in Ashgabat slightly eerie.We are in Ashgabat to cover India’s hopes of tapping into this vast wealth of energy, with a groundbreaking ceremony for the Turkmenistan-Afghanistan-Pakistan-India pipeline in the ancient town of Mary or Marv, about 350 km from here. The TAPI pipeline, as it is called, will draw from the world’s second-largest natural gas reserve of Galkynyshk when it is completed. Given the challenges: of Taliban in Afghanistan, of India-Pakistan tensions, that is itself a big question. Nevertheless, President Berdimuhamedov seems keen to show us all a good time. He has pulled off a coup by getting the leaders of three countries with the most complicated relationships under one tent. Quite literally. The delegations accompanying the visiting leaders Indian Vice President Hamid Ansari, Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and Pakistan PM Nawaz Sharif are hosted under a massive tent in the desert outside Mary (Marv). As we watch, the roof of the tent transforms into a planetarium-type video screen as we are shown the future of the TAPI pipeline. Next, we are served lunch in an equally large ballroom also part of the tent as the orchestra plays Bollywood strains. First ‘Kal ho na ho’ then ‘Kabhi khushi kabhi gham’ is played.It never fails to amaze me what a strong hold our Hindi film industry has on swathes across from China to Russia to all of West Asia. The food looks grand, although vegetarians like me must make do with salads, as for my hospitable Turkmen hosts, every dish must contain meat. The delicacy du jour: thinly sliced tongue.It is time to return home and leave this rather unusual country that has in so many ways retained its Soviet past, even as it comes to terms with its more recently-found riches. As we load up at Mary tarmac, one of the many that were built to house bases for the Soviet Air Force pre-1991, there are hundreds of men, women and children waving flags. At some places on the highway, locals in traditional clothes dance and wave as our convoy goes by. But those crowds are at odd variance with the cities we have visited, where only security guards can be seen, and not even a bird or a dog is out on the streets. I am told that most people have been asked to lock up and go away or stay indoors because of security concerns for the visiting delegations.I think of India’s ancient links with Turkmenistan (the city of Marv was on the old Silk Route), and wonder why people today are so unwilling to question authority. I think of India’s most famous link to Turkmenistan, the brave commander, poet and navratna in Akbar’s court, Abdul Rahim Khan-i-Khana, whose father Bairam Khan came from Turkmenistan. Rahim, whose tomb stands in Delhi’s Nizamuddin, (a stone’s throw from where I have lived for years), was famous for many conquests, most notably the ouster of the Ahmed Shah sultanate in Gujarat in 1573, which he annexed for Akbar, who had adopted him by then.Eyes that are full, streets that are empty. Rahim’s pen proved mightier than his sword, and his poems and ‘dohas’ remain in currency today. He is credited with several couplets most kids learn in school, but also for his poem. Rahim traced his lineage through his mother to the Yadava dynasty and saw himself as a descendant of Lord Krishna as well, and many of his love poems were read as devotional poems. “My love’s image is embedded in my eyes, and there is place for none else,” Rahim wrote, “Like a full caravan serai from which a pilgrim must turn away.” As our caravan turns away from Turkmenistan, perhaps the more painful sight is not the fullness, but the emptiness of its streets.