http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/The-next-in-line-nexus/article13988525.ece

Mid-twenties is tricky business. Relatives are dying to know about your love life and are desperate to know when you are getting married. Eyebrows arch. Questions increase. The M word crops up in every conversation. However convinced you were about your decision back in 2015 to turn a deaf ear to pesky neighbours, you begin to worry about growing old alone. And before you know, you are writing a reflective piece on marital pressures.Last year was a season of weddings for me. Most of my school and college friends got married. A few found their life partner through the arranged marriage nexus, while a few were love birds who dated right from school! I attended almost all the weddings. Because, it was the best time to catch up with my friends, enjoy gossip and relish delicious food. But, very few get the point.Like my relatives who enquired over phone in a frighteningly mellifluous voice, “So are you getting married next? Is it enough to go around attending weddings? It is time you settled with someone.” I politely told them marriage is not on my cards right now and that instead I wanted to globe-trot. They hung up on me and that was the last I heard of them. However, no one could be more worried about my single status than my landlord, who calls me once a month ostensibly to talk about rent but invariably ends up with a pep talk on marriage. “How long can you expect you to trouble your parents, ma?” he asks. Clearly, the fact that I am a working woman, who can fend for myself and do without my parents’ money, does not count for anything with him.My friends also have similar stories to tell. One of them has been “pursuing higher studies” for the past five years just to escape the flurry of proposals.And another went off Facebook and Instagram, unable to handle the honeymoon pictures of her classmates!Pupils dilate even more when you tell your relatives that you have a boyfriend. Like a friend of mine who broke the news to her parents about her relationship.“You think about it,” she coolly said and left them to make what they will of it.Another friend has already laid out her terms to her mother; “No pennu kaanal”. In Kerala, this ritual is as important as the wedding itself. This is when the boy’s family inspects the girl’s. The boy’s people compliment the girl for the tea she has made. The girl in turn has to flutter her eye-lashes, and her parents have to giggle about how shy she is. And you know how that story ends.“I will find a person for myself,” says a pal cheerfully to her parents, who look at her as if she has gone soft in the head. “Too ideal and has an impractical outlook towards life,” was the verdict passed about her.I wish my married friends well but I wish people would stop badgering me about being “next in line”.So, last Sunday when I went to watch Charlie, a Malayalam film, I was delighted to see the heroine of the film flee her home, terrified by the idea of an alliance set by her mother and brother. Instead, she embarks on an adventure trip and pursues a mysterious, free-spirited man. She goes to a land of artists, friendly burglars and fishermen.I wish I was allowed to do the same. And allowed to remain a happy single soul.