http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/The-challenger/article13997444.ece

To come so far yet having to go for the final hurdle is a tad frustrating for Suket Dhir. But the in the news designer, who emerged triumphant in the finale at Dubai six months ago, knows how to swim against the tide.“I am keeping my fingers crossed. The challenge was to give a new twist to my collection of blazers, coats, jackets. I have tried to create synergy between handloom and mechanised new techniques for my summer collection. It is different from the Dubai collection in terms of exploring colours, designs and minimal detailing. It is all about fabric; silhouettes are classic and trendy at the same time,” says Suket, on the phone from Florence, Italy with just a day to go for the 2015/2016 International Woolmark Prize Menswear Final.It is a win-win situation for Suket, a strong contender for the prize. He knows that having reached the finals he is bound to make a mark in the international arena. “It is not the destination but the journey which is important. And I have had an amazing journey; it has been a huge learning experience for me like meeting contemporaries and getting used to the environment here.”Describing his collection, the NIFT alumnus says it has an Indian soul and modern aesthetics. “My collection is simple yet classic. It is reinterpretation of Ikkat. We have infused Ikkat on wool. It has been done before but I am the first designer who is doing it with cool wool Ikkat. In May/June one cannot wear it in Delhi but can wear it in Bangalore. Also it suits the climate of European countries,” says Suket, who had a brush with the corporate world in Bengaluru before embarking on a career in designing.This experiment was a complex exercise. “Using Ikkat on the Merino wool was a tough act. One cannot imagine Ikkat without the dyeing technique. It was difficult to use the technique on the wool but we found a way using different permutations,” says Suket, who excels in natural fabric.With competition building up, Suket says collections created by strong contenders are vying for attention of the jury. He thanks Rajesh Pratap Singh for giving him useful tips on how to make a difference in an international competition. And also his family, which extended full support to him even when things were not going his way.“My collection is a result of the collective energy of all – embroiders, weavers, tailors and family. It was this collective energy that took us to the next level. Svetlana, my wife, has been supportive of me and I am missing her as she could not get visa. She helped me keep my focus whenever I went off track. My sister has been handling the business side. It is a small family which has been managing my affair with fashion. If I win I would be dedicating it to Svetlana and Zoraveur, my son…,” says Suket, accompanied by his mentor Asha Baxi, former NIFT Dean.And he doesn’t forget to thank weavers from Murshidabad and Pochampally, who initially had reservations of working on the fabric but went ahead with confidence after Suket won the regional round. “My weavers are used to working in cotton and silk but I pursued them to experiment with wool. Now they are exited as it is a new thing for them,” says Suket, a specialist in old school tailoring.