http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/The-creative-thread/article14026752.ece

Occasionally, craft fairs throw up unexpected bonanzas. This time around at Cotton Fab 2016 in Valluvar Kottam, it is a spacious stall near the entrance, manned by an aged, affable craftsman. Meet Syed Ahmed, master dhurrie weaver from Sitapur (U.P.), whose world revolves around his modest brick-walled atelier strewn with bundles of brightly coloured cotton and silk yarn.“One of my earliest memories is the rhythmic clack of the flat loom,” says the traditional artisan. Since he was 12, he has been weaving cotton floor rugs of all sizes, sometimes in a combination of silk or jute too. These rugs are low-maintenance, colour-fast, cool in summer and warm in winter, he says. Each piece is individually crafted, takes two to seven days to complete, and costs between Rs. 150 and Rs. 2,500.His dhurries sport bold geometric motifs in black, white, grey and brown, interspersed with stripes — a perfect complement to minimalist interiors. Colour-rich creations span vivid reds, yellows and verdant greens. Occupying pride of place is a sumptuous indigo and white dhurrie, its intense blueness eclipsing adjacent palettes. Though Syed seldom travels beyond his village, his weaves grace some of the most elegantly furnished homes in Europe. His craftsmanship attracts international recognition, as Sitapur is the area from where brands such as Ikea source flat weaves. “My work is exhibited at the annual trade fair in Germany, and many of the pieces displayed are custom-woven,” he says.Cool KotasWith summer flavouring the air, breezy fabrics rule the handloom section. And what can get lighter than Rajasthan’s traditional kota? Weaver Imtiaz’s collection includes cotton-rich munga, doria and gossamer 350-khat saris, enhanced by zari butis, checks, Jaipur florals and geometric Sanganeri hand-block prints (Rs. 650 to Rs. 1,200) in terracotta hues. ‘The non-starch, non-iron variant, designed for the workplace, is a sell-out. Priced at Rs. 900, these saris come in bright turquoise, magenta and orange shades,” points out Imtiaz.Chikan creationsCan Lucknowi chikankari, another summer favourite, be far behind? “The design vocabulary encompasses 36 distinctive stitches on soft cotton saris, kurtas and material,” says Javed Alam. He displays a tracery of delicate pink, white blossoms and vines.“This newly-introduced kurta design employs bakia (shadow stitch), keel (raised centre) and fanda (dots) stitches in Mughal motifs. The USP of the tepchi stitch that adorns saris is that it appears identical on both sides.” Cool pastels in lime, peach, strawberry and violet beckon in silhouettes that include angarkha, A-line, short and long kurtas (Rs.600 to Rs. 1,800). “Translucent georgette kalidars and classic styles in soft, crisp white mul are snapped up by teens, who team them with fusion wear,” says Javed.Ikat, Kalamkari, Pochampalli, Chanderi, Benarasi, Kashmiri, Jamdani, Jamavar, Uppada and block-printed yardage are among the other varieties on display.The exhibition is on till February 7, from 10.30 a.m. to 9 p.m.