http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/The-problems-of-meaning/article14001443.ece

Is a word just a word? Is meaning its only embodiment? The extraordinary Sukumar Ray opened the floodgates of our imagination when he unleashed the tradition of nonsense in India. A word, and its relationship with meaning acquired an extension -- in fact changing the notion of meaning itself. Where then does meaning lie? In the object, in an idea, in the thing? Writer Vivek Shanbhag, in his Kannada short story turned English novella, sets out with twin words: nonsense words, if that is what you want to call them – Ghachar Ghochar. With these unknown words, the author explores the constantly elusive nature of meaning in human relationships. Isn’t this exactly what Sukumar Ray did – with Abol Tabol, he set us on the search for meanings that weren’t obvious to the physical eye or familiar to the ear.The novella, Ghachar Ghochar, one could say has twin movements. In the exterior is this small, closely knit family that lives a modest life. With progressing years, they have a successful business venture, a bigger home, mounting desires… modesty and humble living slowly becoming a thing of the past. Through the transforming relationships within the novel, the author opens your sensibilities to a global dynamics that is not out there in the world, but is continuously being shaped by forces within. It impacts various layers of relationships, even as one safely envisages it in the happenings of the nation-state and economies. While the exterior becomes dense with layers of complicated family happenings, the interior bares each of these characters mercilessly. In Vivek’s portrayal, a realignment of their values with economic empowerment is cold and brutal.Where then is meaning? Is it in what we see? Is it in the journey of the family that has flourished over time? Or is it in the hidden layers – in the brutal politics of inclusion-exclusion formed by fierce notions of identity? Ghachar Ghochar appears to spring meaning at you, and then takes it away – making it more complicated each time. The tradition of nonsense, is not actually the opposite of sense. It is somewhat similar to what Alice understands, in Lewis Caroll’s Alice in Wonderland -- ‘not’ as ‘knot’. In his most significant work, Vivek makes it clear that the aesthetic purpose of his writing is also the search for meanings that are far from visible. In other words, the word embodies more meaning than its physical manifestation.Vivek Shanbhag’s Ghachar Ghochar has been translated into English by Srinath Perur, published by Harper Perennial. The book will be released by Girish Karnad in Bangalore on January 19, Aliance Francaise, 6.45 p.m.