http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/The-art-of-making-perfect-choices/article13986402.ece

A sure shot formula for concert success is said to lie in the heady mix of Thyagaraja kritis and a madhyamakala course. That lesson proved to be V. Sankaranarayanan’s safe harbour at the Charsur Arts Foundation. Aided by the experienced Nagai Muralidharan and Srimushnam Raja Rao duo, Shankar relied on his ability to criss-cross comfortably between the familiar and the unfamiliar to establish a good standard from the start.There were many less familiar streaks in Natakapriya and Navaneetham, apparently intended as theme ideas for his concert. Lathangi and ‘Aparadamula’ of Patnam Subramania Iyer were classically presented, and the popular Thyagaraja kriti soundalike served to keep the momentum strong, after a sedate start with Sri raga varnam and Natakapriya (‘Ithi samayamu’, Mysore Vasudevachar). Muralidharan’s raga alapana of Lathangi and Khambodi were soaked in authenticity and jeeva swaras.Shankar balanced the concert well, with minimalistic swarams in the early phase and a beautiful niraval at ‘kripa jesina’ of Aparadamula. By clipping the swara segment, he dwelled enjoyably on the niraval. ‘Sri Ramam’ (Narayana Gowla, Dikshitar) was slotted at the right time, to check speed.Shorn of multiple sangathis, this creation has an intrinsic beauty that is only matched by its lyrics.It is a puzzle why this raga was not used more often by Dikshitar.Thyagaraja's ‘Lemidelpa peddavaru’ in Navaneetham was too brief to linger in the mind. The Khambodi raga alapana sung next by Sankar was skewed towards high energy patterns while Muralidharan maintained bhavam as the anchor.Sankar’s clarity in the concentric sangathis for ‘O Rangasayee’ added further verve to the concert. The duet with Muralidharan in swarams was both intelligent and edge-of-the-seat stuff.Srimushnam Raja Rao cruised along well through the contours of the various songs and embellished his thani with many pausative and reductive patterns. That pauses can enhance the percussion effects is an underrated ploy, but Raja Rao was not one to miss the trick. S.V. Ramani’s ghatam forays were interesting without being obtrusive.