http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/The-real-test-of-the-scheme-begins-on-Monday/article13977956.ece

he Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government has already declared the odd-even car-rationing scheme a success. But with Friday a holiday and followed by a weekend, the real test for Arvind Kejriwal’s pet scheme will be on Monday, a working day.When the Delhi Chief Minister was told that cars were off roads largely because it was New Year’s Day, he said: “Car volume may be less as it is New Year’s Day but it is to be noted that most of them have odd number registration plates. So the apprehensions are unfounded as only car volume may go up on Monday not violations,” he said.Even Transport Minister Gopal Rai in a press conference held on Friday, said that some people are apprehensive about Monday. But he assured that the Delhi government preparations are in full swing and people are likely to face less problems.“People are saying that the real test of this scheme will be on Monday when people in large numbers will go to work. I am confident that in coming days also Delhiites will continue to support our endeavour as they will choose health of their child over their comfort,” he said.With many Delhiites out of the city celebrating the New Year, traffic police officials sharing the same concern said that the real challenge will start from Monday. “We are going to have a challenging Monday as there will be far more cars, people will come back and resume work,” said Special Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Dr. Muktesh Chander. He said more traffic cops will be deployed from Monday onwards.Mr. Rai said that he and his colleagues will inspect the buses on Saturday and Sunday to ensure that things go smoothly on Monday. Even experts said that it is very early to already announce the scheme a success.“It is too early to say anything. But the government is trying their best. They have augmented the public transport. In fact, we can draw a conclusion only after next Friday, whether it is a success or not,” said Nishi Mittal, member of Supreme Court-constituted Road Safety Committee.Besides regular DTC and cluster buses, an additional fleet of 3,000 buses have been deployed in the city and school buses have also been roped in.“Delhi government’s odd-even car scheme seeking to curb pollution in city seems to have started off well but the real impact of the road rationing experiment will be tested on Monday,” said Vishnu Mathur, Director General, Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers.Car volume may be less as it is New Year’s Day but it is to be noted that most of them have odd number registration plates. So the apprehensions are unfounded as only car volume may go up on Monday not violationsArvind Kejriwal,Delhi Chief Minister