http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/entertainment/The-routine-of-romance/article13992038.ece

I bit into a fresh strawberry. Like food critic Anton Ego in Ratatouille , I was transported back to the breezy evening my mother had slipped one into my custard. This transcendental appreciation must’ve been louder than I recall. My Airbnb host squirmed as if he were Harry tolerating my Sally ‘moment’. He formed one half of the middle-aged gay Austrian couple that had rented out their sofa to me.“It tastes so… homely,” I sighed. “Not much of a home though,” he remarked, half jokingly, before rushing to get dressed. I could swear I saw a wistful smile.That’s when it struck me. In my week there, I had never seen them together. Before your sci-fi genes conjure up the Fincher-ish theory that they were one person, the reality of it was far more profound. He worked at a beauty saloon through the day; his partner worked the nightshift as a guard. Their hours never overlapped. Their “happily ever after” was, in fact, a resounding tragedy.Soon after, I confronted the cruel universality of this irony in Aditya Vikram Sengupta’s Bengali film, Asha Jaoar Majhe . At first, I wondered why I was being shown solitary chores of a jobless young man (Ritwick Chakraborty) and a busy woman (Basabdutta Chatterjee).Slowly, the smokescreen clears. A familiar pattern reveals itself. She phones him from the bag-making factory she works at. He cuts the call, and proceeds to switch on the water pump; later that night, she bathes with this water.Another missed call, and he buys fish from the market; at dawn, she cooks macher jhol for his lunch. His missed call after his printing-press night shift serves as her wakeup alarm. A home built on terminated gestures of acknowledgment. Echoing ringtones replace Post-it notes, and wordless reminders replace sweet nothings. A married couple trudging through life separately so that they can be together.My host, too, had placed an extra breakfast on the counter that morning. He left the geyser running. After work, dinner would wait for him on a table with one chair. When he’d hit the sack, it was the empty side of the bed that distracted me. And the pillow he’d embrace.Sengupta’s landscape reeks of isolation: no dialogues, a tale told through the soundscape and vignettes of a recession-hit Kolkata, and most notably, quiet hints of a backstory – perhaps a defiant courtship that must’ve found root in the arts.Occasionally, lilting tracks of old Bengali songs drown out the ambience, ones that perhaps led her to become a failed singer. And he is perhaps forced to find music in the noise of words being printed, instead of his own ageing words.Similarly, my hosts preserved photographs of the families that had disowned them. Theirs was a fiercely private quest to abandon loneliness. Suddenly, sexual identity wasn’t their gravest challenge; it was but a subset of their enduring struggle for validation. Here they were, languidly searching for binary souvenirs in a singular, monotonous existence.This condition assumes many forms: Husbands working abroad to support their family, the BPO lifestyle, long-distance couples working towards a closer future. Love becomes a luxury, and they look for it in seemingly mundane aspects: Skype dates, money transfers, or in this film’s case, a shared cup of tea — in the timeless vacuum between the end of his day and the beginning of hers.The 31-year-old filmmaker paints a brooding picture of a day in these lives, where pining has no voice, and is restricted to fleeting glimpses and stolen minutes. That morning, the strawberry and I became chapters in a burgeoning book of longing.With the sugar rush, I inadvertently broke his coffee machine. This cost him 15 precious minutes. Just before he left, his partner walked in. It had been five long days. As they hugged, I felt like the gentle mist shaping their soft-lit dream sequence.(The writer is a freelance film critic, writer and habitual solo traveller)