http://www.thehindu.com/features/cinema/The-great-Pongal-race/article13990705.ece

The biggest festival season in Tamil Nadu is Pongal, and this year isn’t any different as four big films vie for screen space. The films scheduled for release on January 14 are Sivakarthikeyan’s Ponram-directed Rajini Murugan (produced by Thirrupathi Brothers), Vishal’s Pandiraj-directed Kathakali (marketed by Sri Thenandal Films), Udhayanidhi Stalin’s Thirukumaran-directed Gethu (produced by Red Giant Movies) and Bala’s Tharai Thappattai (distributed by Ayngaran International). As you can see, some of the biggest companies in Kollywood are backing the Pongal releases, this year.Of the 1,162 screens in Tamil Nadu, only around 950 are fit for new releases. A no-holds-barred battle is now going on between the giants for a lion’s share of the screens. With all the four films boasting of impressive credentials, it could well turn out that no single film gets that all-important huge opening.In the past too, there have been times when half-a-dozen films have lined up for Pongal release, but they all managed to get a decent number of screens, as release stations were restricted. Today though, films are released across wider geographical zones, as 85-90 per cent of a film’s theatrical collections come during the first week of its release. Given the present situation, a star-powered film manages to get released in 450-500 screens, across A, B and C centres, while a small film get released in about 150-200 screens, depending on the clout of the distributor. In Chennai city, Chengalpet, and to a certain extent, Coimbatore town, all the four Pongal releases will get a sufficient number of screens as there are enough mulitplexes in these areas to handle all the films. But even in these centres, there’s intense competition for the bigger screens and the number of shows. The situation is different in the rest of the State, as it is not multiplexes, but the single screens that call the shots. These screens usually play only that one big, commercial film; occasionally, some of them may make an exception and screen two films for two shows each. In smaller centres like Gobichettipalayam, there are only a total of two-three single screens.A leading exhibitor and distributor in Coimbatore area, Tirupur Subramaniam, says, “It’s mayhem, this Pongal. Every film will suffer, with no film being able to reach its potential. In Coimbatore area, there are 160 screens, but some small towns have only two screens. I have decided to play Sivakarthikeyan’s Rajini Murugan in most of my screens (he controls 58 out of the 160 screens in Coimbatore area), as I think it’ll appeal to the family audiences.” In all this confusion, the real winners are the exhibitors, as they have multiple options for once. They are able to dictate the terms and conditions, and play those films that they think will get them the maximum revenue. Meanwhile, the single screens, which used to pay handsome MGs (minimum guarantee), will not do so, instead opting for alternate monetary arrangements. In some areas, screens, which have a monopoly, are demanding better terms, and getting away with it.Under the circumstances, even if a Pongal release turns out to be a hit, the revenue will be minimal, as the number of shows and screens will be limited during the first week. A leading producer says, “The idea is to maximise revenue from minimal shows in the least number of days. There is no way of evenly spreading out the releases, as two weeks after Pongal, from January 29 till February 26, every Friday will see at least two big films releasing, including Aranmanai 2, Irudhi Suttru, Miruthan, Pichaikkaran, Bangalore Naatkal, Jil Jung Juk, Thirunaal, and Idhu Namma Aalu.”Everything now depends on the marketing muscle of the distributors and producers. This could well be a sign of things to come, this year.