http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/The-magic-of-margam/article13999478.ece

When dance and music are interwoven seamlessly, the outcome is bliss. It was hard to tell who inspired whom — musician Srikanth, who sang soulfully, or dancer A. Lakshmanaswamy, who performed with sensitivity and brilliance.Starting with the slokam, ‘Shanthakaram,’ Lakshman chose to dance a complete margam — alarippu to thillana – and the manner in which he brought out its magnificence.The chathusra alarippu was followed by the Saveri raga jatiswaram, where the aesthetic structure of displaying perfect and clear movements to the rhythmic sollukattus unfolded.A little hint of abhinaya, which surfaced in the Khambodi shabdam blossomed manifold in the varnam, ‘Daani Korikenu,’ a composition of Poochi Srinivasa Iyengar in Vasanta.In the varnam, the sakhi addresses Srinivasa, the Lord of seven hills describing the emotional state of the love-lorn heroine, who is tormented by separation from her Lord. This nayika-centric composition was handled with finesse by Lakshman. He took care to maintain the thin line of distinction between male and the female, wherein he maintained the masculinity while choosing to portray the tenderness of the female, highlighting and uniting the two aspects.The variety of sancharis to show the lotus-eyed Tamara- saksha and the nayika being tortured by Manmadha’s arrows were testimony to his artistic excellence. The jati sequences performed with clarity and precision.Krishna became the focal point in the successive abhinaya pieces — Kanakadasa’s ‘Baro Krishnayya’ and ‘Priye Charusheele’, a Jayadeva ashtapadi. If the former highlighted the bhakti bhava of a devotee asking Krishna to visit him, the latter was a romantic one, exploring the nuances of sringara rasa. ‘Baro Krishnayya’ was magical, where every little bell of the kiru gejje was sensitively portrayed by Lakshman. Equally moving was the piece depicting the love between Radha and Krishna.The concluding item, a Patnam Subramania Iyer thillana in Khamas was vibrant with a lot of swirls and sweeping movements.In the hands of a sensitive artist, the margam can never become an anachronism, was the message that Lakshman conveyed. The fabulous musical support besides Srikanth (vocal) were given by Sikamani (violin), who played tenderly, Nellai Kannan (mridangam), who remained non-intrusive during abhinaya, and Sudarma ( cymbals), who played with precision and confidence.