http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/tamil-nadu/The-many-steps-to-an-inclusive-election/article14021222.ece

Elections come and go, but the number of residents with disabilities exercising their franchise continues to remain low – primarily due to the problem of access at every stage, from registering as a voter to actually casting the vote, say activists.This year, the Disability Rights Alliance, Tamil Nadu, has had several meetings with the chief electoral officer ahead of the Tamil Nadu Assembly elections to make the polls more accessible, and is urging all citizens with disabilities to get enrolled as voters and to cast their votes.“We have had three meetings so far, and are working on a number of issues. One of these is the access auditing of polling booths. We have developed an app that can be used for this,” said Smitha Sadasivan, a member of DRA.While the Election Commission had a list of basic facilities that all polling booths would have, the DRA has added to this list, said Ms. Sadasivan.“Facilities such as ramps, lighting, drinking water and toilets are there. But this is not enough – the ramps have to be of the right gradient. There have to be hand rails, signage, reasonable accommodation and volunteers to help those who need personal assistance,” she said.Reasonable accommodation, for instance, could be ensuring there is a stool for very short persons to be able to cast their vote.Another area the DRA has been working on is to have persons with disabilities at institutions registered as voters and to ensure their votes are cast too.“There are two sets of people here – those who have been registered in their hometowns but now live in institutions, and those who have never registered. They too, must be given the option to register, must be given information on the candidates and facilitated so that they can cast their vote,” said Amba Salelkar of Equals, Centre for Promotion of Social Justice.C. Manimaran, nodal officer for persons with disabilities at the office of the chief electoral officer, said the process had begun to get the residents of 10 homes for persons with leprosy registered. There are around 11 lakh persons with disabilities in the State, Mr. Manimaran said, and of these, about 60 per cent may be over the age of 18.