http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/The-bad-side-of-the-binge/article14017679.ece

The aftermath of a binge-watching session is chaotic: there are leftovers from devoured junk food all around, blankets and pillows lie in disarray, and the mind still reels from the adrenaline rush of witnessing the nerve-wracking action in front of you.While DVDs and record buttons slowly introduced the idea of binge-watching, it is Netflix’s arrival in India that will see it cemented as a cultural phenomenon. Binge-watching is the experience of continuously watching a TV show, episode after episode, season after season. “You have endless streaming devices and entire seasons at the click of a remote, who wouldn't want that?” says psychologist Dr. Mini Rao.Marathon-watching a TV show may be a great way to pass time, but it also has lasting psychological effects, even leading to what is now coming to be known as post-binge watching depression. “Once I’ve finished binge watching a show, it’s a struggle to get back into the real world,” explains Mrinali Fernandez, who binge-watches Game Of Thrones and Korean dramas, adding, “You’re depressed about leaving behind a world where you’re so invested in the story and the characters. The only way I can get over it is by watching another show, and, of course, depression sets in again when that ends. It’s like a vicious cycle.”Psychiatrist Dr. Asgar Alam explains the medical side of things, saying, “Neurochemicals such as dopamine and serotonin trigger emotions. The fall in these chemicals once an activity has ended, in this case, watching a TV show, is possibly what could lead to this feeling of emptiness.”When you immerse yourself in a show for hours, it’s easy to imagine you’re a part of its world, believes Dr. Nappinnai Seran, a clinical psychologist at Meenakshi Medical College. “Part of the reason why binge-watching is so addictive is because it lets people live a fantasy,” she says, “They start to mimic what they see on screen and try to find themselves in those characters.”“It’s what we call cognitive empathy,” adds Dr. Mini Rao. “It examines how humans can adopt other people’s perspectives. Studies show that oxytocin levels, a hormone associated with human connection and caring, were higher after TV serials. It’s clear that people are able to connect emotionally with the characters on screen, especially when they’re facing the same issues or just trying to find a welcome relief from their busy lives.”The debate about whether the experience of binge- watching a TV show enriches or diminishes still rages, but Dr. Ravi Samuel, a therapist, believes that if the right balance is struck, binge-watching could be beneficial. “Moderation is the key,” he stresses, “But a programme with motivating content, or a well-written and produced drama can inspire creativity and thinking.”“Pop culture and the way we consume it is always changing,” concludes Anusha Ganapthi, who binge watches The Walking Dead and Breaking Bad. “And, while it’s not something you should be doing all the time, sometimes, it’s nice to know you have nothing planned for the weekend except the latest season of Orange is the New Black.”