http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/The-game-is-on/article14005245.ece

It was just another day, except I’d forgotten to take printouts of important documents. A short hunt later, I spotted Sri Balaji Cyber Café in what can best be described as a decrepit building in Anna Nagar. As I made my way into the tiny space, I was surprised to hear shouts of ‘Oh no macha, you’re missing the target!’ ‘Arre, now I’m going to beat you bro’.Turns out, the cyber café, like a few others in the city, is a hot spot with gamers looking for better bandwidth, a common venue to compete against friends, and a few hours of pure gaming.“Gaming at home can be quite boring,” says Hema Anand, a Second Officer on a ship, who loves to spend six to seven hours a day playing his favourite games when he’s off duty. “My friends and I get together at Yuri’s Yard in Nungambakkam, and I love the atmosphere. The energy is different when you play with friends. Of course, it goes beyond just gaming; there’s some good-natured ribbing and a certain competitive spirit to it as well.”Yuri’s Yard has been around for nine years now, and continues to be popular with the gaming community in the city. According to Dhanasekaran, the owner, factors like better systems and bandwidth are also a huge draw for gamers.“They often play online games competitively, for which they book slots in advance, since they need a system with a better graphics configuration, higher Internet speed and glitch-free playing time,” he says.To ensure that gamers enjoy a hurdle-free experience at his cyber café, Dhanasekaran, who is better known by his game name Yuri, blocks websites that consume too much data. “Social networking sites and video streaming websites take up too much bandwidth, so I don’t encourage that kind of browsing here. But people can come and browse the web or check their e-mails and get printouts if they want. It’s just a small step to ensure that the gaming experience remains unhindered.”Some of the popular games continue to be multi-player strategy games like Dota 2 and Counter-Strike: Global Offensive. “I particularly enjoy Dota 2, which is a frequently played game online. It’s a good platform to pitch your skills against those of a stranger’s. With online games, you are pitted against other players based on your ranking, so you hardly ever play with the same player twice. That apart, I also enjoy playing LAN games with friends,” says Anand.While Yuri’s Yard and Sri Balaji have been around for quite some time now, a new entrant in this scene is Rumble at Adyar.With a Facebook page to keep regulars updated with events and activities, this cyber café is fast gaining popularity. They even have attractions like the Rumble LAN clash for regulars, where they encourage games between teams of five, with the winner being awarded the 5x5-hour package that is popular at their centre.People usually stumble upon these cafes and the culture of gaming by chance. Soon they’re hooked and go on to play on professional platforms; and sometimes at international tournaments as well. Take, for instance, Shaan Narayanan, a businessman, who has represented the Indian squad at China and Los Angeles in the past. “I started off playing games like FIFA, since that’s what all my friends were playing back then {this is 15 years ago}. I was gradually introduced to the world of cyber games, and soon enough, I was hooked to online and LAN gaming. Now my friends and I split into teams to compete with each other. It was through this that I learnt about the World Cyber Games, qualified and went to play internationally,” he says, adding, “I never thought I’d play professionally. It started off as something fun, and soon, I just wanted to see how good I really was. Abroad, of course, gaming is a lot more serious, with sponsorships and regular tournaments.”Yuri adds, “There’s a whole professional side to gaming that isn’t encouraged enough here. Gamers are often pulled back here saying that it’s a waste of time. But the mental agility and skills required for gaming are anything but a waste of time. It takes a lot of patience, teamwork and improves one’s ability to take split-second decisions. Then again, the prize money at international tournaments is quite big.”