http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/The-couch-makeover/article14003216.ece

That old couch feels left out, and a little out of place. Your clothes change with the season, so do your accessories, hairstyle and car. Well, there’s no reason why the sofa set shouldn’t. “People tend to keep couches for so long that they end up looking worn out; the fabric wears out, and so does the foam. The upholstery should be changed every three years,” says Amrita Thomas Modi, who started Create Your Couch with her brother Arjun Thomas. It’s an e-store that allows clients to design their furniture’s upholstery — as of now, only chairs, couches, sofas, ottomans, chaise longues and poufs.You get to choose from 11 types of fabrics, some solids and geometric and floral prints.“We customise our own prints and for now have five — Moroccan, Muted Lines, Evergreen Blush, Amazing Aqua and Basic Beige,” says Amrita, who plans to introduce new designs every six months. As an architect, she noticed the demand for customised products. With people bored of cookie-cutter patterns, this website seemed like a bright idea. While she takes care of the designing, Arjun, who is a product strategist, looks after the logistics and customer care. The manufacturing unit is in Bangalore and it takes four weeks from the date of ordering for the finished product to get delivered.While grey and beige are safe options and eternal favourites, brighter shades such as blush and powder blue are getting popular too.“We introduced these colours as they aren’t readily available in the market. A survey, prior to launching, revealed that neutrals were top of the list, followed by pastels,” she adds.Even though there are requests for bling, the designer is steering clear of that and sticking to her usual chic patterns.Quirky elements are what she’s working on next. No, that still doesn’t mean they’ll make minion prints available. “Drama Queen (chaise longue) and Diva (ottoman) are popular among clients. Our furniture is a modern take on something you’ve seen before.”