http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/dance/The-grace-of-Mohini/article14012110.ece

Most of the viewers sitting in Krishna Gana Sabha would have gone on a nostalgic trip to their childhood days, as they watched Sujatha Ramachandran’s Mohiniyattam presentation, ‘Omanathingal’. This Iraiman Thampi, misra chapu, Kurinji raga lullaby composed for the child Swati Thirunal, found poetic expression in Sujatha’s portrayal (student of Kshemavathy), as she brought out the essence of vatsalya bhava.Entering the stage delightedly holding the hands of the little child walking with unsteady steps, then carrying him piggyback, showing him the moon while feeding, the happiness on the child’s face hearing the cuckoos sing and seeing the peacocks dance… every little detail of a mother-child relationship was captured by Sujatha with intensity. The soothing music even lulled a crying child in the audience to sleep.Beginning the performance with a prayer to devi with beautiful freizes of Simhavahini, Chamundi and Veena Vani, Sujatha presented a sringara composition, Chitralekha next. Through subtle sancharis she conveyed the mood of the heroine in this piece.‘Mahadeva Siva Shambho’ in Revati was rather an unusual choice in a Mohiniyattam recital. It was interesting to see the depiction of tandava lasyam/grace in nritta without dramatic movements of the body.Concluding the show on a bhakti note, Sujatha chose Sadasiva Brahmendra’s ‘Pibare Rama Rasam’ in Ahir Bhairav set to music by M. Balamuralikrishna. Attention to detail in the transformation of Ahalya into stone and the stone’s disintegration when Rama’s feet touches it, enhanced the impact of the story. The dancer gradually moved from a descriptive to a metaphysical plane with Ramanama.Shorn of all dramatisation and fast-paced movements seen of late, Sujatha’s attam was truly that of the Mohini.Supporting Sujatha were Gopu Kiran (nattuvangam), Gireesh Menon (vocal), Sreedharan Peringode (edakka), V. Nagarajan (mridangam) and Chittoor Sudhakar (flute).