http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/There%E2%80%99s-a-feel-good-factor-for-TRS-says-KTR/article13986261.ece

Panchayat Raj and Information Technology Minister K.T. Rama Rao predicts that TRS would bag majority of the seats in the ensuing GHMC elections and the Congress would be relegated to the fifth position with its score not crossing the single digit mark.“Our nearest rival will be MIM followed by the BJP and TDP” he said in an exclusive interview to The Hindu . In fact, the TDP has lost its relevance in Telangana today, he added.According to Mr. Rao, the TRS government, in the last 19 months, had demonstrated that it was capable of very good governance and the “feel good factor” would enable the party to secure at least 76 seats in the 150-member corporation. Edited excerpts from the interviewHow important are the GHMC polls for TRS?My personal opinion is it should not be a do or die battle. But for a party in power, every election becomes crucial. Our firm opinion and belief is this Government has performed and it is for the people to endorse it. Hyderabad is mini India. Definitely its important to get a vote of confidence.How can the TRS repose faith in the voters belonging to different parts of the country particularly those from Andhra Pradesh?Politicians’ deeds matter more than their words. In terms of showcasing our performance in 19 months, I think we have delivered the goods. We don’t need to give them confidence any more on safety. They are more composed that the Government means business. They have seen that all their security apprehensions have vanished in thin air. There is a feel good factor.Will there be any poll alliance or understanding with other parties in the GHMC polls?We will be contesting all the 150 divisions. We are very positive that we will get above and beyond the magic figure of 76.Any chance of alliance with MIM or will it be friendly contest in some divisions?We are contesting all seats and no understanding with any party. It will be an unfriendly contest.Who is going to be your main opposition in the elections?Congress will be the biggest loser in this election. It will be relegated to fifth position and will not cross the single digit mark. TRS will definitely win. Our nearest party would be MIM followed by the BJP-TDP combine.Has TDP lost relevance in Telangana?The way Rashtriya Janata Dal lost relevance in Jharkhand, the TDP has also lost relevance in Telangana. The Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister is the president of the TDP. His base and core audience and strength are in Andhra Pradesh. The party has lost relevance in Telangana politics. That’s why he is riding on the shoulder of BJP. In Medak and Warangal parliamentary bypolls, the party did not take a chance of fielding its candidate. Instead it supported the BJP. Even in Secunderabad Cantonment Board election, the TDP-BJP combine was hoping to do well but it did not win a single seat. The TDP has not won a single election in the last 19 months in Telangana.If the TRS is so confident of faring well why is it encouraging defections from other parties?People and typically politicians with same bent of mindset tend to defect. This is not something that is happening for the first time in the State or the country. To accuse us of encouraging defections is not correct.Does MLAs from other parties joining the TRS strengthen your party?They may not strengthen the party but definitely sway the minds of the people.The TRS has been accused of deleting names of lakhs of voters with the fear that they would not vote for your party?Deletion of voters is the biggest joke. The population of Hyderabad city as per 2011 census is 67 lakh and the number of voters is 72 lakh. Can it get more absurd? Election Commission tried to resolve the issue. On an average out of every 100 voters, 65 is the turnout. In Hyderabad it is a peculiar situation. Those not born or part of the city are all voters. When somebody tries to rectify the anomaly, parties cry foul. It is not the Government’s job to do correction of electoral rolls. The job is that of the Chief Electoral Officer. When we try to address the issue, parties try to accuse us of polarising voters and spreading apprehensions and utter lies. How is it justified? We are going to polls with the same number of 72 lakh voters.Our nearest rival will be MIM followed by the BJP and TDP combine. In fact, the TDP has lost its relevance in Telangana today.K.T. Rama Rao,Panchayat Raj and Information Technology Minister