http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/The-city-of-letters/article13984497.ece

“Delhi, and indeed, India surprises me every day. The day it ceases to surprise, I might just get bored and pack up…Delhi is Dickensian. It can be cruel, brutal, materialist, yet remain beautiful.” This is what William Dalrymple said almost half-a-decade ago. The words still ring true in the city of letters, the city Dalrymple calls home for around 10 months a year. Also, once a city Zauq refused to leave when he got an invitation from the Nizam of Hyderabad to settle there. “Par Kaun Jaye Zauq Dilli ki gallian chhod kar”, went on to be a part of folklore. And from the times of Zauq, the Ustad of Bahadur Shah Zafar, and Mirza Ghalib, Delhi or Dehli or Dilli, as it is called in different parts of the city, went on to be the literary Capital of the nation.If famous poet Nida Fazli was born here, Gulzar spent time in Subzi Mandi area here soon after Partition. Based in Mumbai for more than half a century, he wrote “Pluto”, comparing his experience to that of the planet that went away. Pakistani poet Fahmida Riaz found home here after fleeing the Zia regime. Then there has been the indomitable Khushwant Singh, whose father Sir Sobha Singh was one of the builders of Lutyens’ Delhi. Khushwant refused to have anything to do with brick and mortar, preferring instead to talk of literary crests and troughs of the city, even underlining the beauty of its flora and fauna in “Delhi: A Portrait”. The city got a novel too from his pen. Simply titled “Delhi: A Novel”, it was an unputdownable experience, much like Dalrymple’s “City of Djinns”. Then, in the latter years of his life, he gave us a peek into “The Sunset Club”, replete with a description of the mood each month brings to the city.Yes, “Delhi,” as Dalrymple said, “is about peaceful coexistence. Life is not compartmentalised. Things are fluid and unpredictable. On the road you can have some absolutely raucous elements, then just a few metres away inside a temple, a dargah or even a Mehrauli monument, things could be completely serene.” Now as the city of mushairas prepares to host the World Book Fair, beginning this Saturday at Pragati Maidan, let’s doff our hats to Delhi, ravaged many times over, but preferring to strike back with the power of pen. Life of letters or letters of life, Delhi has scripted them all.