http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/The-humble-pav-is-in-vogue/article13995940.ece

The humble vada pav, a dollop of fried aloo filling served with a chilli and a tangy red chutney originated in Maharashtra and has over the past few years emerged as a very popular delicacy in Bengaluru. It started as cheap street food created by an enterprising vendor in the 1970’s near the Dadar station in Mumbai and is now available in different varieties as well, with the aloo filings being replaced by mixed vegetable and egg fillings. A host of small outlets serving vada pav have sprung up across the city and many high end restaurants are also bringing the pav into their menus. Metroplus explores the reasons for the growing popularity of the vada pav and the best places to tuck into the delicacy in the city.For college student Meenakshi Sadananada, the vada pav is the cheapest option for a filling meal. “Eating options in Bengaluru are very expensive. The best thing about a vada pav is that you can pick one on the go and it is inexpensive. It is a Indian version of the burgers that chains such as Mcdonalds and Burger King dish out at exorbitant rates.”She adds, “I like the mixed vegetable varieties that I get at the Goli vadapav counter near my house. I even like the sweet Szechwan vada pav as well.”Writer Pavithra Prasad swears by the vada pav served at Sagar Chats in Rajajinagar. “It tastes great and works well as a snack. I have many friends who gobble up the vada pavs as a substitute for breakfast.”Tanmoy Savardekar is a fan of the pav served at Rajvardhan, a small store located in 9th block Jayanagar market. “It is run by a couple from Pune. Their ghati chutney and the sweet tamarind chutney are superb. The ladi pav they serve is not very sweet. It is my favourite place for vada pav in the city.”Businessman Rajeev Raut contends, “ I have been born and bought up in Maharashtra. I think that the closest to the authentic Puneri vada pav is a small hole in the wall outlet in Seshadripuram near the Laxmi juice centre. The vada pavs served at Suryavanshi in Indiranagar is also authentic.”Preety Padi is not a fan of vada pavs in the city. “I have tried it out in many places in the city and have not enjoyed it much. The vada pav is a poor man's food and does not work in fancier versions. I feel that the vada pavs made by the gaadiwalas work better than those served by vada pav chains. You cannot subsititute the rustic experience with couches and cafes.”Shekar Venkat runs a small vada pav outlet on Hennur road. He says, “I used to source the chilli powder and the batata filling from Maharastra for bringing the authentic taste. However, I had to bring in new varieties to get more people interested in vada pav. Though the vada pav is very popular, I do not think I can make do with selling only vada pavs. I opened a momos and sweet corn counter to get bigger crowds. I feel that the vada pav will be popular among people rushing to work in a city like Mumbai. However, the anda pav and the mix vegetable pav are really popular.”***Popular vada pav outletsGoli vada pavJumbokingSuryavanshi, IndiranagarRajyavardhan