http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/tamil-nadu/Their-masters-voice/article13980694.ece

They are the tight-rope walkers and more often than not are expected to hedge the bet. The role of spokespersons in Tamil Nadu politics dominated by leaders and hero worshipped by their followers is limited but a rather difficult one. They are expected to speak the mind of the leadership and articulate the party’s stand maintaining equanimity in the face of provocation, unlike a party platform speaker who quite often plays to the gallery. But in their zeal to defend the party leadership sometimes they end up making gaffes like what AIADMK spokesperson Nanjil Sampath did when he justified the party’s grandiose general council meeting in flood-hit Chennai saying a wedding cannot be called off just because there was a death in the neighbourhood.Incidentally, the concept of spokesperson was unheard of in Tamil Nadu till the mid-1990s when G.K. Moopanar appointed B.S Gnanadesikan as spokesperson of his fledgling Tamil Maanila Congress.“The culture never existed in Tamil Nadu because leaders spoke directly to their supporters through regular public meeting and interaction with the media. The idea of a spokesperson is imported from Delhi,” said Dravidian scholar K. Thirunavukkarasu.>Also read: Making it big by speakingBut unlike their counterparts in Delhi who are relatively free to express views, spokespersons in Tamil Nadu have to be doubly cautious as a slip of tongue may land them in serious trouble.Even DMK’s spokesperson T.K.S. Elangovan has more than once borne the brunt of the high command for making comments inconsistent with the party leadership’s position.“A spokesperson should fully understand the mindset of the leadership and the policy and programme of party. In my case, the party only disagreed with the time I chose to express my view,” explained Mr Elangovan. He was appointed as the DMK spokesperson only a year ago though he has been unofficially donning the role for many years.Proliferation of satellite television channels and newspapers and regular debates have forced political parties, barring the DMDK, to appoint a panel of spokespersons to articulate the party’s point of view.“Many times I had briefed the media without consulting Moopanar, who even allowed me to announce the party’s decision to quit the United Front in 1998. The job will be very easy if you have a clear idea of the mind of the leader and the course on which the party has decided to travel,” said Mr Gnanadesikan.A. Gopanna, who also functioned as a spokesperson for both the TMC and the Congress, said the job was both tough and easy. “You have to keep abreast of the developments while identifying the party line,” he said.