http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/The-man-beneath-the-scar/article13988568.ece

It was the summer of 2010 and Shatrughan Sinha was making news for shaving off his trademark moustache to play a role inspired by N.T. Rama Rao. Watching his stylised acting, over the years, one had almost forgotten that Sinha was a trained actor from the Film and Television Institute of India. So when he said, ‘I believe in the magic of logic,’ one was stupefied. I thought there is more to this man than Chhainu or Kalicharan captured. Bereft of traditional qualities of a hero, Sinha emerged as a complete original at a time when the industry was manufacturing clones of Dilip Kumar in different shapes and sizes. He would break a dialogue in a way that would be considered blasphemous by the conservatives but would invariably draw whistles. For all the arrogance that we associate with the star, the man knew his limitations as he went on to admit that night. “I followed the dictum if you can’t be the best, be different.”This winter all those memories got recycled as I got hold of Bharathi Pradhan’s biography of the man of many words. “Anything But Khamosh” (Om Books International) captures the vibrant life and times of Sinha in black and white. Going behind the rings of cigarette smoke that Sinha effortlessly billowed on screen, it opens secrets like his fascination for Indira Gandhi. He admits had she not passed away after Operation Blue Star, which he claims she discussed with him, he would have joined the Congress. “If Madam Gandhi had survived, despite my being against the Emergency, the way she gave me so much affection and placed such faith in me, perhaps I would have joined the Congress,” says Sinha in the book. It offers tantalising details about his relationship with Amitabh Bachchan and Subhash Ghai and decodes how Sinha has been an inspiration for three superstars from the South.Thirty years back, Pradhan predicted that if there is one celebrity who can offer an honest and readable biography it was Shatrughan Sinha. And today after seven years of work and 200 hours of taped conversations, she has proved she was not far from the truth. “Very few people open up about their life the way Sinha has. He was honest about his life but also open to comments of people whom I interviewed about him. His own secretary Pawan Kumar who looked after his work for 40 years said that he didn’t agree with his shift from villain to hero. He should have remained a villain. It is very rare because a secretary is known to tow the line of the master. And it was honest on Sinha’s part not to use the blue pencil,” says Pradhan.“There was no area where he said water this down – be it the portions where I asked Salim Khan why did he not make it as big as Amitabh or analysis of political journalists which questions his political acumen. Usually, biographers are also sycophantic. Biographers are often expected to present a very white washed image of the person. I have never done it. And when Sinha himself said he wanted an honest biography, one that would also go into the grey areas of his life, it made my task easier,” elaborates the seasoned journalist.His lack of punctuality and arrogance are often cited as roadblocks which prevented him from achieving the status of a legend. “He thinks that punctuality is an exaggerated virtue,” says Pradhan. The man was late even on his wedding day. As for comparisons with Bachchan, Pradhan goes with Salim Khan’s analysis. Khan, who not only wrote the powerful role of a coal mine worker for Sinha in Kala Patthar but also ensured that he stayed put in the film despite sustained provocation, compares the two with Sachin Tendulkar and Salim Durrani. Durrani was a far superior batsman but he was erratic and didn’t have the discipline of Sachin Tendulkar. “Bachchan has the combination of talent and discipline. It is very rare to have both,” says Pradhan. Having said that Pradhan goes on to add that if somebody likes stylised acting nobody can best Sinha and offers films like Mere Apne and Rampur Ka Lakshman as benchmarks.As for Sinha’s propensity to walk away with the scene, Pradhan reminds that Bachchan reportedly had the same problem with Vinod Khanna in Muqaddar Ka Sikandar. “When two heroes do parallel leads they have this problem. The scripts were a lot more flexible those days. Today actors are very clear about their parts when they go to the sets. There is very little space for manoeuvring.”On his part, Bachchan is graceful. He says Sinha was always unique and one should not attempt to change him. He talks of the times when they were strugglers and in the bunch only Sinha had a car which would invariably break down. Everybody would get down to push it, except for Sinha. “Whether you call it arrogance or sense of entitlement, he always had it. It has nothing to do with the fact that he became a star,” maintains Pradhan.Subhash Ghai, with whom he gave three consecutive hits including the image changing Kalicharan before parting ways, remembers the days when Sinha used to share a room with five others. Once he recommended his name to a producer for a two-scene part. The producer sent an assistant to bring him. Sinha not only made him wait for an hour but also asked him to take him in a taxi and pay for it.The big fansHowever, the biggest surprise comes when Rajinikanth, Chiranjeevi and Ambareesh, the three superstars from the South, admit Sinha was the actor they looked up to in their formative years. It is an eye opener for a generation which is born after the 80s and which has seen only the caricatured version of the star on comedy shows. “They used to call me the Shatrughan Sinha of the South,” says Rajinikanth. He was fascinated by his mannerisms “like the way he’d hit someone and nonchalantly look at the watch,” recalls the superstar. “When I played the villain, the mannerisms were strongly influenced by him. I completely followed his style,” he admits. Chiranjeevi has no hesitation in admitting that Sinha was the reason that he became an actor and that he used to mimic his voice. Citing lines like ‘Bandok haath mein lekar geedarh bhi sher ban jayega, Heera’, Chiranjeevi says the way he delivered his dialogues was unmatched. “This side of his following has not been documented. Imagine he was a guy from Patna. Perhaps they looked like him,” Pradhan tries to analyse.On his propensity to criticise his own party, Pradhan says Sinha feels that his criticism is always meant to strengthen the party. His senior colleague Sushma Swaraj has advised him patience. “In politics arth ka anarth ho jaata hai,” she says. But the best quote about Sinha’s political acumen comes from Nitish Kumar, somebody he has praised openly in recent days. “When I asked Nitish pointedly would he like to take Sinha in his party, the statesman that he is, he got around the question and said Sinha doesn’t need a party. I left the rest for the people to read.”