http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/The-flute-enchanted/article13986397.ece

It is an absolute pleasure when every syllable of the lyrics or sahityam resonates, especially in an instrumental music concert. Flautist Shashank offered this joy to the audience, who responded with a standing ovation, not at the end, but in the middle of the concert.A brief sketch of Sahana followed by the varnam ‘Karunimpa’ in two speeds was a cheerful start. Another fast-paced rendition of Thyagaraja's ‘Okapari judaga rada’ in Kalavathi sustained the sprightly atmosphere.A more relaxed alapana of Saraswathi, hovering around the lower octaves specifically in the characteristic nishadam, was mesmerising. Thyagaraja's ‘Anuragamule’, set in Rupakam, was rich in melody.Violinist Akkarai Subhalakshmi’s portrayal of the raga was brilliant. The kalpanaswaras brought out the creativity of the entire team. Encouraged by the display of varying nadais by Sriram Brahmanandam on the mridangam and Vazhapalli Krishnakumar on the ghatam, Shashank explored different combinations drawing applause for a long swara segment.A compact and neat ‘Vidajaladura’ in Janaranjani was only a prelude to a grand Keeravani. The traditional essaying of the raga, though lengthy, had myriad timeless phrases. A streak of Bowli flowed in through sruti bhedam. The tanam Shashank played revealed his prowess in handling the raga. Subbulakshmi’s tanam on the violin was crisp and pleasing. Shashank then took up Thyagaraja’s popular composition, ‘Kaligiyunte’, instead of a pallavi, at the request of the audience.Starting from the anupallavi lines, he extensively unfolded the grandeur of the kriti. The niraval and kalpanaswaras were rendered at the usual lines in the charanam ‘Baguga sri raghu’. The swaras were built in various gatis — tisram, khandam and misram — leading to a dramatic, fast-paced exploration that appealed to the listeners. The thani avarthanam by Sriram and Krishnakumar, incorporating interesting korvais, was gratifying.Shashank concluded the concert with the soothing ‘Saramaina’, a javali composed by Swati Thirunal tuned in Behag and a thillana in Poornachandrika.