http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/letters/The-Bose-papers/article14019616.ece

The declassification of the secret files pertaining to freedom fighter Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose is a welcome move (“Ashes in Renkoji temple are of Netaji, say files”, Jan.25). However, after due consultations with the Japanese government, India must arrange to test the DNA from the remains of the bones and help bring closure to the long drawn-out mystery.D. Sethuraman,ChennaiProfessor Leonard Gordon’s statement that the classification of files on Netaji is a case of undue secrecy is right (“U.S. scholar denied access to Bose papers”, Jan.25). Whenever there was a clamour in the past to make the documents public, the stock government reply was that the move would lead to serious disturbances in the country. It automatically gave rise to suspicion that the intent was to suppress evidence that could be contrary to the official version on his death. To cap it all, the contents of the so-called secret files were not given even to the Justice Mookerji Commission, a fact-finding commission set up by the government. Prof. Gordon also seems to be right in calling one of the letters as “phoney”. An unsigned letter cannot be treated as a valid document.Sanjit Ghatak,KolkataThe declassified files have confirmed what one had always believed — that Jawaharlal Nehru was too noble a soul to allow his political differences with Netaji to influence him at a personal level. Witness the steps he took to ensure the financial well-being of Netaji’s widow and the decision not to bring the mortal remains of Netaji from the Renkoji temple out of regard for the sentiments of Netaji’s kin. It was Nehru who donned his barrister’s gown after a long gap to put up a spirited defence of the arrested INA officers at the famous trial at Red Fort. On the other hand, Netaji had such high regard for Nehru that he even named one of the brigades of INA as ‘Jawahar Brigade’.Welcome as the declassification is, it must have disappointed those who were clamouring for it to find documentary evidence to support their allegations of wrongdoing against Nehru vis-à-vis Netaji. Truth be told, the far right has hardly anyone who can be spoken of in the same breath as Gandhi, Nehru, Patel or Netaji. To overcome this handicap, they have gone about planting stories of imagined slights suffered by Netaji, Patel et al at the hands of Nehru in an effort to distance these leaders from their Congress backgrounds in the public perception. Unfortunately, the statements of some of Netaji’s kin have only aided this game plan.G.G. Menon,Kochi