http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/business/The-new-impatient-digital-consumer/article13979676.ece

While TRAI, net neutrality activists and Mark Zuckerberg continue to get their knickers in a twist about Facebook’s Free Basics, there are battles being fought every minute between brands and the digitally-empowered Indian consumer.The consumer is not a new, improved one. He’s a new, impatient one. Take a look at a smattering of tweets addressed to big brands:DJ&SEN þ@digvijoy78 is irked with being made to wait for 15 minutes by Vodafone. “@VodafoneIN Pathetic connection speed in Thane.. Called customer service and made to wait 15 minutes. Ignorant & Arrogant Customer service,” he says.Sowjanya þ@Sowjany02463063 has a problem with Flipkart. “@flipkartsupport I ordered phone received defective sent replacement did receive nothing empty. 4 days no resolution very upset 1st order :(,” is her beef. Keith Rodrigues þ@kitoroy seems to have great reason to be upset with Jet Airways. “@jetairways I am #frustrate with your servce,after 12emails,08calls nd #falsehope frm ur cust care past 27 days.Appellate offc silent as wel,” is his Twitter status update.When a brand is present on social media, a Pandora’s box opens. According to the Greek mythology, once Pandora opened the box, all the evils of the world were released. In the case of brands and their Pandora’s box, the box releases a nightmare – conversations.Consumers talk to brands, as Digvijoy, Sowjanya and Keith did. And when they talk to the brands about unhappy experiences, they expect a conversation to begin. A conversation that proves that the brand is listening and that the brand is concerned about them and cares about them.It’s not easy – and that’s why marketers need to take deep breaths before deciding on a social media presence. The first element that they need to put into place is a mechanism to listen to all that is being said online about the brand –especially the negative comments. The new impatience demands that conversations be monitored constantly, and responded to immediately.There are some obvious categories in which the impatience is close to real time. Cancelled flights, non-availability of reserved tickets and hotel rooms, banking transactions failing and mobile phones not working are some examples. If the complaint is ignored or there is delay in resolution, the consumer keeps talking – to the brand and to other consumers, damaging the brand a little more with each update.So do you stay absent from social media to avoid this mess? That’s not a choice any more. Whether a brand is on social media or not, conversations about brands – the good and the bad – will continue. Opening your Pandora’s box and being present in social media allows you to be part of the conversation, and, in the case of negative conversations, find a way to end the conversation.There’s a clear upside to being present on social media. Brands learn from these complaints, which are almost ‘crowd-sourced’ audits of the customer experience. Brand managers can identify problems in their own processes and systems at little cost and correct them. And when complaints on social media are addressed quickly and to the satisfaction of the consumer, there’s instant gratification in most cases when consumers voice their gratitude and talk about their faith and trust in the brand.In the mythological story of Pandora and her box, she watched, aghast, as the evils flew out of the box. She then shut the box, saving whatever was still in the box. All that was left was Hope. If marketers choose to deal with the complaints that fly out of social media with alacrity and fairness, that’s what they will have, too. Hope.(The writer is Editor, Storyboard)