http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/letters/The-Netaji-enigma/article14017713.ece

This refers to “ >PM releases 100 secret files on Netaji” (Jan.24). The release of the first set of 100 government files on Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose by Prime Minister Narendra Modi fulfils a longstanding public demand. Though the move has garnered accolades from die-hard fans of the Indian National Army (INA) chief and his family members, it has also served to ruffle the feathers of those within the Congress. Nuggets of information like Jawaharlal Nehru trying to help Netaji’s widow, Emilie Schenkl, the U.K. government considering listing Netaji as a “war criminal” days after his purported death, and Mahatma Gandhi asking Netaji’s family not to perform his shradh disbelieving that he had died in the Taihoku crash provide interesting food for thought. These apart, there is nothing to suggest that there is any new information.N.J. Ravi Chander,BengaluruThe only way to put to rest the controversy surrounding the ‘death’ of Netaji in an air crash in 1945 is by carrying out the DNA test of his purported ‘remains’, preserved by Renkoji temple in Japan. Some of the declassified files reveal the reluctance of both India and Japan to act on this count. Instead, New Delhi used its diplomatic capital to persuade temple authorities to continue to be the custodian of the ‘remains’, on payment of money. It is obvious that it was entirely at the behest of bureaucrats that the Indian government hesitated to bring the ashes, fearing an adverse impact on the political prospects of the party in power. Facts can no longer be held hostage to political expediency. Mr. Modi should reverse the politically motivated decisions of his predecessors.S.K. Choudhury,BengaluruWhile the declassification is a welcome move, one cannot fail to see the real motives behind it. Ever since the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) came to power, it has launched a concerted campaign to denigrate Jawaharlal Nehru and, thereby, the Congress. After appropriating Sardar Patel’s legacy as a foil against that of Nehru, it is now using Netaji’s communications. While doing this, the BJP has ignored the convergence that occurred during the freedom struggle between views of the late leaders.The three commissions set up so far have failed to give a conclusive explanation on the circumstances leading to Netaji’s death. The most plausible theory that still holds is that he died in a plane crash. There is no need to mystify things further. The government has better things to do instead of wasting time and energy in a pointless search for resurrecting incriminating documents as evidence of Nehru’s role in Netaji’s death. Let it focus on the pressing issues of the day — like the growing menace of terrorism; price rise; and atrocities against the weaker sections of society — and think hard on why the achhe din (good times) promised by Mr. Modi during the election campaign still elude the people.Satish C. Aikant,Mussoorie Literature on Netaji is rich in mystery. The plane crash theory is trashed by many. Some say that he was not in that plane at all. Others say that a crash of an airplane in that area on that date never took place. There are also rumours that he resurfaced in India in the guise of a sadhu. It is also observed that in the later years of his life he was spotted in China.The declassification of the Netaji files will only give room for fresh research leading to needless controversies. What really happened to him is anybody’s guess and a stale subject for the common man. The emerging truth is of no use and will have very little impact on the lives of ordinary Indians. Both the earlier classification and the recent declassification of the Netaji files were purely political acts and the most inappropriate way to remember a patriot.V. Lakshmanan,Tirupur