http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/The-rhythm-of-a-maestro%E2%80%99s-life/article13999470.ece

Documentaries can sometimes be dreary affairs, especially when about subjects that you don’t have the greatest exposure to. So, it was with mild apprehension that I sat at The Folly, Amethyst, to watch Prakriti Foundation’s Overtone, Rajiv Menon’s documentary on Umayalpuram Sivaraman, the legendary mridangam artist. But perhaps in anticipation of viewers like yours truly, the documentary opens with a quick introduction to classical music. You’re familiarised with the genre, and with the various people — including Nobel laureate Venkatraman Ramakrishnan, vocalist Sikkil Gurucharan and Belgian saxophonist Fabrizio Cassol — who make recurring appearances in the documentary to talk about their views of the percussionist. In minutes, I found myself drawn into Sivaraman’s world; a swiftness in immersion that only a filmmaker who’s well-attuned to the ways of storytelling, like Rajiv Menon, can create.At 30 minutes, the documentary doesn’t really give him too much time in which to dwell on the evolution of Sivaraman as a musician. But Overtone makes up for this lack of depth, with its attention to the little, enterprising details of Sivaraman’s life; the quaint, even peculiar, bits you remember as you make your way out. Like when Sivaraman mentions that he wasn’t allowed to take formal lessons until he heard the ni-sa-sa in the tambura overtones, which took him as long as six months. Like when he talks about how important it is that percussionists play to the singer’s strengths, even if it means not playing at all sometimes. Like when he mentions that he doesn’t shake hands with people; not after hearing of how his disciple fractured his hand.Overtone is also incisive enough to bring out some ironies. Sivaraman talks about how he hasn’t ever played for female vocalists. “Well, I haven’t played for them for so long. Why change it now?” And immediately, you’re shown the shot of him training female students. No, it’s not apologist filmmaking. It’s just to help you make informed judgments about the musician. Habits, especially those observed for close to seven decades, are, after all, difficult to change. This was emphasised again when a member of the audience, after the screening, expressed admiration for Sivaraman’s upright sitting posture, even during lengthy concerts. He simply pointed out that like most humans, he was a creature of habit too; that his father trained him to sit straight from when he was five.This must have been no easy documentary for Rajiv Menon to make. As he said, “We filmmakers are often looking for a plot; a rags-to-riches story. But Sivaraman was always affluent.” But Rajiv, ever the filmmaker, does manage to find that angle in a sub-plot. You see, Sivaraman has always got his mridangams made by Kalidas, a local mridangam expert whose family, despite its illustrious history of making the instrument, has never had a mridangam player. The filmy twist here is that Kalidas’ son is now being trained by Sivaraman. The documentary came full-circle when, after the screening, Kalidas’ son was introduced to the viewers, who let their encouragement be known with a thunderous round of applause.Sivaraman, after the screening, took to the mic to tell the audience that he stood against caste and creed; that he was willing to teach mridangam to anybody who felt passionate about the music — like the 84-year-old man he’s training presently. But he needn’t have explained himself at all. Overtone, which means ‘a higher frequency’, had already, subtly, done that, and showed him to be a genius musician who does not discriminate on any basis. In short, a higher man.