http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/The-stars-volley-at-Celebrity-Badminton-League/article14024659.ece

It’s eleven in the night, but Skylap Badminton Academy, tucked away inside a Valasaravakkam street, bustles with life. A heated match is underway on one of the four courts — Arun Vijay has teamed up with Rahul Nambiar to try and oust Karthik and Ranjith.There’s fierce competition on display, filled with super-quick smashes and tantalising drops, as the practice match progresses to the final stages. The scene in the next court isn’t very different — S.P. Charan is taking on Aravind in another match.These unlikely players — all celebrities in the movie business — are part of four teams that will battle it out in Dubai today, as part of the Celebrity Badminton League (CBL) that pits actors, singers and directors from regional film industries on court.It’s that time of the year when celebrities are covering new ground, literally. Take, for instance, actor Shanthnu Bhagyaraj. He’s having a really busy week, but not on movie sets. “I’m playing cricket (CCL) and badminton (CBL),” he says, adjusting his bandana just before heading to practice. “I play shuttle at night, and wake up early to report to the cricket ground for nets with my mates.”Sounds like the schedule of a sportsman? Shanthnu is still very much an actor, with two films lined up, but uses this time of the year to keep fit through sport.“In cricket, we are obviously restricted to a 15-member squad, but here, we have nearly 40 celebrities. Here, it’s all about individual talent,” says the actor, who has Vaaimai and a film with Bala’s assistant up next.Arun Vijay, who is also actively into sports, has been honing his game too, and swears by it. “You have to be quick on the court…it’s all about how you move. It’s not just about fun; it is about performance as well,” he says.That he is captain of Chennai Eagles means extra pressure on the actor, whose performance in Yennai Arindhaal was appreciated. “We can’t push some people beyond their ability. So, I stop with motivating them that they are no less talented, and have asked them to take it cool,” says Arun, who used to play the game regularly, “It’s also a good place to network, meet other stars. It’s almost like family now.”Singers are part of it too — S.P. Charan, Rahul Nambiar, Ranjith and Nikita Gandhi, among others.Nikita, who sang the ‘Ladio’ number in I, has been practising for a while with the teams, and hopes to do well at the tournament. “It is a great stress buster and our practice sessions are full of fun,” she says.Teams and CaptainsFalcon Fires: Jayam RaviNaturals Peacock: MeenaChennai Eagles: Arun VijayCRV Pelicans: Bharath