http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/The-people-behind-the-risings/article13993931.ece

Over the last few months, a wave of protests by ordinary citizens has been sweeping across Bengaluru. The people behind them are not professional activists adept at giving pithy quotes. They are one of us, fed up with the system, but without the cynicism to give up on it. Instead of grumbling about a failed system from the comfort of their homes or air-conditioned cubicles, they decided to speak up.We take a look at some of the citizens who have spearheaded protests across the city.****Taking it to the streetsNitya Ramakrishnan, Whitefield Rising When Nitya Ramakrishnan returned from a stint abroad in 2010 and moved to Whitefield, she was bothered by the civic problems faced by residents and office goers in the layout. “Initially, I felt that I could not bring about any change on my own. It was at this juncture that a campaign against the arbitrary felling of trees gained momentum in the city and that was a turning point of sorts,” she says.Nitya decided to get in touch with like-minded individuals in the neighbourhood and conducted a survey to list the major issues that citizens in Whitefield faced on a regular basis. “We discovered that people were concerned about water, sewage treatment, bad roads, and the depleting green cover. After an informal meeting, we decided to come together.”And thus, ‘Whitefield Rising’ was born in mid 2013 with 15 volunteers.“We figured that with the best brains in the country working in Whitefield, we could find solutions to major civic issues plaguing the area. It is important to go beyond the government and make an effort on your own,” she adds. First, she developed a new model for selection of volunteers. In the past one year, the citizens’ movement had volunteers involved in different projects, such as garbage clearance and creating solutions for cleaning up water sources. “We wanted to make it entirely voluntary.”On the protests conducted by the group, Nitya says, “It is not easy to get people on the streets to protest. It was the frustration of living in an area beset with civic issues that resulted in people taking to the streets. Our Facebook page and a large number of volunteers also helped. This is a group initiative.”****From humble beginningsPriya Ramasubban and Shilpi Sahu, ORR and Sarjapur RisingOuter Ring Road and Sarjapur Rising were created out of Bellandur Forum that was started by a group of residents staying in Bellandur.Priya Ramasubban, who is from the neighbourhood, has been involved in civic issues and has been working on the movement with her friends Shilpi Sahu and Shalini Susheel. “We started off without any grand plan. It was a small initiative, where we were trying to sort out civic issues. Over the past few months, we noticed that the condition of Sarjapur Road had deteriorated and commute had become difficult. We decided to do something about it.”The friends used social networking sites to coordinate the protests. “Apart from social media, most of us involved in the protest knew each other.” Shilpi Sahu, an engineer, says, “We wanted a ward committee to sort out the civic issues plaguing our area. That did not materialise. We worked with locals and created word-of-mouth publicity. We started petitions that aim at bringing about changes. Our protests resulted in Ministers and area Councillors assuring us of a solution to traffic woes. We plan to petition for the setting up of commuter rail network connecting Bellandur to Carmelaram.”Shilpi attributes growing citizen participation to the fact that Bengaluru is a hub for expats and non-resident Indians. “People no longer have patience living in a city with crumbling infrastructure. Change needs involvement of the people as well.”****The power of protestHari Narayan, Friends of Lavelle RoadForty-five-year-old Hari Narayan, who owns a solar power business, is not the stereotypical activist. But, he is a crusader. Fed up with the garbage piling up on Lavelle Road over the past year, and the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike paying no heed to their complaints, Hari and other members of Friends of Lavelle Road mobilised the neighbourhood to come out and protest on December 14, 2015.And the black spot was cleared within a day.A resident of Casa Lavelle society, Bengaluru has been home to Hari for the last 20 years. “A friend has been part of The Ugly Indian. It rubbed off on me. I feel people can take care of their neighbourhood. You can’t let the system fail. There is no point in complaining,” says the businessman, who floated Friends of Lavelle Road.But there was no significant activity by the group except the clean-up job it took up in October 2014. “That is not as tricky as a protest. For a clean up, we come out and clean the surroundings. A protest is all about trying to get attention, to get noticed,” he says. It took a week of planning by the group. They designed posters and placards, contacted the media, the authorities and mobilised residents.“Sunitha Kumar was very actively involved in the campaign. We would call up people and tell them to join the protest. My wife made posters in Kannada, and wrote the press release. Finally around 50-60 people, from a three year-old to 65-year-olds, turned up from my society complex and a few from apartments nearby. No officials turned up, but the garbage disappeared within a day. I didn’t expect such swift action,” says Hari.He doesn’t want to break the momentum. The group is trying to get an appointment with the MLA of the area.****Saving BellandurSanjana Chevalam, Asprit Kaur, Namgay Choden, Manasi Anand and Anamitra ChatterjeeFive final-year B.Sc. students of environmental science at Mount Carmel College could have stuck to submitting a proposal to clean up the frothing Bellandur Lake for the TERI University competition. Instead, they decided to take out a march to create awareness about the condition of the lake, and shake people out of their apathy.On December 18, 2015, armed with placards, a group of 50 conducted a peaceful march from Hotel Novotel, Central Mall, to the lake, where a Kannada play based on the same issue was staged.“Environmental issues bother us. We are environmental science students. We left our homes to come and study here. If we don’t do anything then who will? It is high time we started acting and stopped complaining,” says Asprit Kaur, who hails from Jharkhand.Sanjana Chevalam says that though five of them have different plans for the future, they united for the competition and the walk. “We had to submit a proposal to clean up a water body in our vicinity and we chose Bellandur. The proposal is now in the top 10 and the winners will be announced in January,” she says.During the course of the research, the group discovered that many residents were either too busy to care or were unaware of the issue. “We went door-to-door but a lot of them didn’t even have time to hear us out. We should have had more people join us considering the gravity of the situation and the number of houses around the lake,” says Manasi Anand, who lives in Cooke Town. The students reached out to newspapers and a radio channel to create some buzz for the event. In addition to that, they also created a Facebook page ‘Save Bellandur’.But the story does not end with a protest. “We are developing a model in our college lab based on the research. We are working on our proposal with the support of TERI University, in which we have stressed the need to reduce phosphates in the lake. We have spoken to the BWSSB chief engineer and they are ready to consider our proposal,” says Sanjana.