http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Food/The-name-game/article13988484.ece

What is it about a name that gets people so riled up? Shakespeare was above it all when he announced that a name could change little about the intrinsic character or nature of a product or substance. Of course, he put it in a manner way more prosaic, but was he entirely correct? Once a name comes to be associated with a certain entity, doesn’t it get defined by that very association itself? The word “rose” would have meant nothing had it not been used to refer to that red winter flower. What if, in some parallel universe, rose was (or is) the word used to describe something unpleasant? Would Shakespeare have still used it in his now-famous quote?Well, hypothetical postulations aside, here in this world, names matter and when someone misuses it, or misrepresents it, then it matters gravely. Take the case of champagne. Try and misuse that name to refer to anything but the eponymous wine from that famed French region, and you will find yourself piled with lawsuits high enough to build a ski resort. Hungarian Tokaj, too, won this war not too long ago, thereby forcing Alsace and Italy to find other names for their native grapes that were incorrectly called Tokay. The same holds true for Darjeeling tea — it is a protected entity — except for a little-known French lingerie brand that continues to flout this rule in our face by hawking its wares under the name of our finest tea district. Goan feni, Hyderabadi haleem and various other products, arts, crafts have this protection extended to them.But, what about Port wine? Or more (in)correctly, Goan Port. How does that continue to escape scrutiny? In Australia, they ceded the practice of calling their fortified wine Port. South Africa similarly moved over to the term Cape Ruby and Cape Tawny to classify their versions. And yet, Goan Port continues to be commercially available. I have two problems with it. Firstly, it is a vile product. I can think of fewer things I have tried that tasted as horribly nauseating. It’s not even wine, let alone Port. If imitation is the sincerest form of flattery, then this is just sincerely insulting.Port from Portugal is a very fine wine. It has heritage, tradition, and history. Goan imitation Port doesn’t even have proper grapes. Port wine can age; Goan port makes the drinker lose a few precious years. Nobody knows where it comes from, or for that matter, where it goes, because outside of Goa, no person with a reasonably intact sense of taste would willingly subject themselves to it.And then, if it wasn’t enough that an entire State continues to be at fault, India’s largest winemaker decided that this was a great way to further fill up coffers and launched Port 1000. The only tradition they adhered to was the Goan one, for Sula’s Port wine is just as insipid as its Indian contemporary.My problem is this: Why do a State and a wine brand continue to proliferate and propagate something that is decidedly and objectively wrong? Do they have a different scale of morals or does having qualms turn many shades insignificant in the face of commercial profitability? Worst yet, unlike a good 20-year-old tawny, these wines carry no health benefits whatsoever, and given the weak (read non-existent) regulations for making fortified wines in India, they are nothing but a way of imbibing cheap industrial alcohol for an easy high. And this is precisely the pattern of binge consumption that should be discouraged in a country where alcohol is seen as a problem and not a social ointment.Maybe, it will take a conscious consumer to bring these defaulters to justice. The Portuguese embassy would be only too happy to see this change happen; I have seen ambassadors come and go and yet the Indian authorities have done nothing to check this rampant and blatant abuse. And yet, they remain uptight about what can be called Kanjeevaram silk, or an alphonso mango.The current head of the Portuguese state is of Goan origin, and I hope he finds a way to put across their nation’s point of view: that a rose by any other name can only smell just as sweet if others are not packaging mulch and selling it under the same name.