http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/The-professor-with-a-green-thumb/article13997404.ece

Prof V.J. Antony wears many hats effortlessly. A retired professor of Physics, he is much feted for his teaching abilities and inventions. As President of Cochin Magic Society for several years he revels in the form believing that magic brings peace to people. As a practising and successful family counsellor for the past 30 odd years he says that the lack of love is the sole reason for most of the ills in society. He follows the love mantra towards his family, friends, clients and even towards the plants in his garden. The professor’s home garden has won the first prize in the Home Garden category( five cents and above) at the recently concluded 34th Cochin Flower Show, and he is all smiles.Antony diligently spends an hour a day in the garden tending to the plants and has a gardener come once a week to mow the lawn. The rest is attended to by him. Vellanikaran , his house on Stephen Padua Road in Konthuruthy, Thevara has a neat garden in 25 cents. The distinctive features about the garden are that the majority are foliage plants offering an expanse of green, the ingenious use of plastic bottles and used helmets as flower pots, use of playful garden props like cement storks, stone uraals, and a bath tub with lotus in it. When he bought the land in the 80s there was no garden to begin with. He was always interested in gardening as a hobby and his garden evolved slowly over a period of time. His main interest is not in flowering plants but in green plants, with a soft spot for ferns. He has nearly 30 varieties of them and 10 varieties of creepers like Money Plant. “There is Bird’s Nest and Peacock ferns,” he says. In the backyard of the house is a vegetable garden with fruiting eggplants and tomatoes and fruit bearing trees.Antony has made a variety of standing arrangements in the garden, in keeping with the currently popular concept of vertical gardens. The use of recycled plastic bottles- halved, inverted, horizontal- as pots is worth emulating, and comes from his holistic approach to life, living and lifestyle. “ I do the landscaping of the garden and try and recycle all plastic bottles. I am now full time into counselling and help people and families,” he says. His main area of specialisation, in counselling, is on right kind of parenting. His talks on the subject, seminars and one-to-one counselling have helped people across Kerala, in the Gulf and even in South Africa where he has been invited to speak. In his career as a teacher of Physics, at Cochin College, he has earned many awards and citations.Among all these divergent interests it is magic that Antony takes to with equal seriousness. With a hard ball in one hand and a foamy sponge in another, he says that the two will become one if his talk or advice to the addressed has been understood.And so muttering a spell- abracadabra- he brings the two together and hey presto a spongy rabbit is what we have at the end of a conversation with the professor with a green thumb.