http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/The-Hyderabad-connection-to-Malegaon-yatra/article13993370.ece

“This is Laddu from Jalpally farms near Hyderabad,” a proud horse trainer Md. Moinuddin introduces the rare miniature horse put up for sale at the famous animal fair at Malegaon in Loha taluka of Nanded district in Maharashtra. “It costs Rs. 15 lakh only,” he states as a matter of fact as curious onlookers and probable purchasers flock his stall at the fair grounds.Moinuddin, currently handling trading of horses on behalf of Hyderabad breeders Faisal bin Thrip and Abdulla bin Thrip, represents the continuing connection of Telangana and its capital city with this nearly 400-year-old fair, the second biggest in India after the Pushkar mela in Rajasthan. “We have been participating in the event since quite a few years and our horses have always been among the costliest on display here,” he says to denote the connection. “The Hyderabadi connection dates back to the days of the Qutub Shahi kings and the Nizams as they had started the yatra,” points out Purushottam Patil, a retired engineering professor from the family of Pujaris of the Khandoba temple with which the annual event is connected. “The Nizams’ love for horses resulted in their active participation in the yatra and they had provided all facilities for traders coming from different parts of the country,” he adds.There are a few camel traders like Shahbaz Ali Khan who actually belong to Hyderabad but hardly get to visit the place as they are busy throughout the year attending such fairs or melas. “This is one of the most important events for us and I have not given it a miss since I started coming here about 30 years back,” he recalls. The Telangana connection can still be seen near the Khandoba temple and the donkey market at the fair which is an important religious event for notified castes and dependent communities like the Potharajus, Wadderas and Pardis. While Potharajus can be seen near the temple, Wadderas can be found trading in donkeys and Pardis selling traditional traps, nets and snares to catch wild animals.