http://www.thehindu.com/features/cinema/The-mind-of-an-awards-voter/article14016001.ece

With the Golden Globes behind us, and the BAFTAs and Oscars to look forward to, we can safely say that we are smack dab in the middle of the awards season. This year too, the awards are oscillating between the predictable and the controversial. The Globes stuck to being predictable, with one exception. Ridley Scott’s The Martian being nominated in and winning Best Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy. Sure, the film has music and Matt Damon wisecracks, but that hardly makes the sci-fi drama a musical or a comedy. Perhaps, it was just the Hollywood Foreign Press Association’s way of giving the film a gong, as The Revenant was always going to win the Drama category.Speaking of The Revenant, the cheerful bunch that is the London Film Critics’ Circle shut out the Alejandro G. Iñárritu epic, with only Tom Hardy getting an acting award, but that was for his performance, not just in this film, but also in Legend, Mad Max: Fury Road and London Road. They also fobbed off Carol with a solitary award – Technical Achievement for cinematographer Edward Lachman — after giving the film seven nominations. To the surprise of many, Mad Max: Fury Road won Film of the Year, and George Miller Director of the Year.Over at the BAFTAs, and also at the Globes, the major curveball was Charlotte Rampling not receiving a nomination in the actress category for what is arguably her career-best performance in 45 Years. While the Globes can be explained away as being American, the BAFTAs are in Rampling’s home territory. Europe has been much kinder to her, with her winning a raft of awards on the continent. Thankfully, the Oscars have redressed the imbalance by giving her a nomination in the Actress in a Leading Role category.At the Oscar nominations, the controversy, for the second year in a row, is of course the lack of a single black nominee in the major categories. Spike Lee has already called for a boycott of the awards. Will Smith for Concussion and Michael B. Jordan for Creed were the most talked-of contenders ahead of the nominations, but such talk came to naught. Which neatly brings us to the nub – what does an awards voter look for while voting? Does he (I say he because at least at the Oscars the voters are mostly older white men) look at the performance in itself, or does he unconsciously factor in the performer’s race. Or, does he walk the tightrope between assessing the performance and the performer’s race to reach an informed, diverse decision?It is tough to be a mind reader in these cases, but I can speak for myself, being a voter in a couple of the awards mentioned above. I just react to a person’s work and then place the work in the context of other great work that I’ve seen through the year and go ahead and vote. My choices mostly turn out diverse, without having to think much about it.