http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/The-web-of-life/article13992107.ece

Television rarely touches upon complex and sensitive topics especially those considered taboo by the society. Even if they do, it is rarely in a positive light. Many summers ago Satyajit Ray’s film Charulata based on a story by Guru Rabindranath Tagore, explored affection between a sister-in-law (bhabhi) and brother-in-law (devar), boldly and much ahead of time.That speaking about such associations is forbidden, leave alone discuss or portray them in the public domain, Ajai Sinha’s Aadhe Adhoore on Zindagi, is a refreshing soap opera creating a buzz. Back on the small screen after a gap, Ajai, is well known for tackling themes usually not discussed openly in drawing rooms. His Astiva – Ek Prem Kahani dealt with marriage between a woman and man younger to her while Hastratein was based on extramarital affair between two married persons. Likewise Justujoo revolved around a married man falling in love with his wife’s sister.Set in Kapurthala, AA presents the story of Jassi who tries to strike a balance between her emotions and the circumstances she finds herself trapped in, leading to a physical relationship between her and her husband’s younger brother.Written by Meenakshi Gupta, Ajai collaborated with her initially to make a film but when Zindagi approached him to create something different, he offered them this concept. On the show’s bold subject, the director comments: “People do confront such situations in their life. It has occurred in the past and will do so in future too. Unlike others I do not believe in turning a blind eye to it.” He follows his argument by citing Draupadi’s example in Mahabharata. “It lends credence to the fact that such happenings did occur and the society accepted or rejected it according to its convenience and need.”Jassi, the devoted wife, daughter-in-law and sister-in-law who fulfils all her duties, is left alone by her husband who goes abroad to earn money bringing her close to her brother-in-law for her physical needs. Making a strong case for her, Ajai refuses to label her right or wrong, black or white. Squarely blaming her husband for Jassi’s plight he says: “He failed to perform the vows he had undertaken. Though her actions are due to circumstances, people will blame her without for once pondering about what the husband may have been doing when away from home. That is hypocrisy. Being open about issues is better than being a hypocrite.”Unperturbed by criticism of his show, the director feels the theme is bound to impact the audience as its approach and subject are different and not the run-of-the-mill types. “Sensitivities may be affected but so would have Draupadi’s story when the epic was written.”Priyanka Dutta, the channel’s cluster head feels the mixed response to the show is typical. “Those censuring it are actually watching it. So it is quite a paradoxical situation.” Taking a dig at other shows, she adds that “we will stay true to the story and not change track based on the flavour of the week.”A challenging roleIrrespective of the plot, audience seems to have lapped up Sonali Nikam’s performance as the main protagonist, Jassi, in Aadhe Adhoore. Having so far played roles which cannot be termed as pivotal, she has worked hard to portray a gamut of emotions inherent in the character.“The portrayal was a rough and tough proposition but I found it challenging as an actor. In fact one hardly gets to do such roles on television,” she says.Jassi’s character comes across as neither negative nor positive since it encompasses different shades much akin to our real life and unlike women characters in other serials she is not depicted as perfect or imperfect. Agreeing to it Sonali feels the character is close to reality who when confronted with certain circumstances. She takes decisions based on them. Torn between her duties and needs, the serial has abundant scenes requiring Sonali to convey her inner turmoil in a subtle and sensitive manner. Expressing contradictory feelings was not an easy task. More so, as she admits that she has never been in situations faced by Jassi she was unable to drawn from her real-life experiences and observations. “Ajai Sinha greatly helped me in learning the nuances of the scene and guided me through simple examples to emote,” she reveals.Sonali feels audience acceptability of her role is no issue. “The profile of Zindagi viewers is different who will understand the show’s underlying theme and nuances. Moreover, it is not presenting something alien on the screen. People may like or dislike it but cannot ignore it,” she says with an air of confidence, much like Jassi who too is decisive and determined.(On air from Monday to Saturday, 9.50 p.m.)