http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Kochi/The-magic-of-mime/article13989795.ece

: Swiss mime artiste Markus Schmid likens the visual art he practises to sculpting, in a stylised manner, even the minute movements of body parts; to levitation.He acts out, elaborately, the process of drinking a glass of water in crisp, staccato steps to prove the point, the hyperbole heightening the effect.“It was Etienne Decroux, [his first tutor] who devised an acting structure for mime. But it was dry, more or less. Later, Marcel Marceau [his mentor who inspired Michael Jackson’s moonwalk] gave the movements grace, fluidity. He stretched time to amplify each gesture, infusing it with feeling, emotion. My style is a blend of both,” said Mr. Schmid, in town to give a few art workshops and to perform ‘ Enki-The Water Singer’ , a mime trio show on water conservation with the Sumerian myth of the God of fresh water thrown in.The performances are at Choice School, Tripunithura, on Saturday and as part of an international workshop organised by E-ProF at Udyan Convention Centre, Vennala, on Sunday.If Marceau had performed without using objects, Mr. Schmid, a diehard environmentalist, uses props made from recycled material and music, drumming up an oneiric setting in which lyrical, metaphorical movements narrate the story.Mr. Schmid’s travelling production troupe, Andrayas, in which his spouse Maria Gomez and children Felix and Leo are a part, went around the world, “to all crazy locations to meet some incredible people and to perform” around three years ago.This time around, apart from his wife, he’s accompanied by electric guitarist and lyricist Hugo Moura and bass guitarist Christian Schmid.The performances the troupe puts up covers areas like social work, culture, education and environment. Happy to catch a glimpse of Kathakali at Kerala Kalamandalam on Friday morning, Mr. Schmid says it’s just that the gestures of mime aren’t codified as in Kathakali.A multi-skilled performer trained in acrobatics, fencing and classical and modern western dances, he had worked with sculptors and visual artists in Holland in a bid to observe and formulate a performance idiom for the body.“His form of theatre really helps children’s education, as it tremendously enhances their attention span and strikes an instant chord,” says Sunil Krishnan, director of Helen O’Grday International which has brought Mr. Schmid to India.Markus Schmid likens mime to sculpting, in a stylised manner