http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/They-too-wait-for-winners/article14018874.ece

A roomful of trophies, symbols of success that teams taking part in the State school arts festival chase and achieve.Trophies, big and small, heavy and light, right from the first festival in 1957, stand inside the office of the trophy committee of the festival on the premises of Government Model Boys Higher Secondary School, Thycaud.Some glitter, their patina removed to reveal a shining surface. There are others, standing slightly askew, that will never be handed out.The gold cup, given to the best district team, however, is not here. Only a model is on display. The 117-sovereign cup is stored securely in the government treasury.One wall of the room is lined by mementoes to be given to the participants. N.I. Sudheesh, convener of the trophy committee, says rolling trophies will be given to winners in all 232 categories of events. These will then be kept at the offices of the respective Deputy Directors of Education till needed for the next festival. To give students something to take back home, mementos will be handed over to them.Ever-rolling trophies are lined up near another wall. These are given away in 21 categories such as best second district and best higher secondary school at the valedictory of the fete.Some of the trophies are in a sorry condition, the stand, the lid, or other parts shaky or missing.However, what is troubling is that some old rolling trophies are disappearing. Many a time, the trophies that are handed over are not the ones that are returned, the trophy committee members say. “Many of these have not been handed out at the State-level fete; the tags are intact but the trophies are not the same. This could be owing to various reasons,” they say.Also, some teams refuse to take home the rolling trophies because they will have to bring it back in time for next year, and they do not want to spend time or money on it.Besides issue of trophies, the committee is also in charge of issuing certificates, a 25-strong team at work till night.