http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/The-Shotgun-speaks-out/article14021331.ece

From his humble beginnings in politics and films, to embarrassing incidents in his personal life, veteran Bollywood actor and BJP M.P. Shatrughan Sinha bared it all to a full house at a session at the Jiapur Literature Festival in discussion with Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, Suhel Seth and his biographer Bharathi S. Pradhan. Shatrughan says, “The only mantra that is accepted in Bollywood is the mantra of success. Your caste, class, and religion are immaterial. I do not think there is any intolerance in India. I have never discriminated against anyone on the basis of caste, class or religion.”Shatrughan was also candid about parts of his life that are not in the public view, such as his extra marital affair. “It has been mentioned in the book. I was caught red-handed by my wife. She made me promise her that I would never do it again. I have always maintained I am a one-woman man.” Tongue in cheek, he adds, “Before I got married, my problem was not whom to marry, but rather whom not to marry.”Holding forth on his upcoming book, he says, “It is been in the making for 10 years now and is a labour of love. It is the story of a person who made it in films and politics without a godfather. It demonstrates how a self-made man has reached where he has. I have made an attempt to be as honest as I can be, though I have left out some portions.”Recalling an embarrassing anecdote, Shatrughan says, “I am fond of green chillies with my food. Once on a British Airways flight, I protested that green chilly is not available on the flight and even threatened to de-board the flight. The crew managed to get some green chillies and the flight got delayed. I was embarrassed when the captain came up in the course of the flight and told me that the delay had made the green chilly the most expensive in the world.”Talking about honesty in politics, he says, “It is a tough task. I feel that youngsters must enter the system. We need people with honesty and integrity in our political system.”The lack of attendance of nominated members of the Rajya Sabha was also part of the discussion. “These eminent personalities can be given some other honour. If it was up to me, I would not have included them in the Rajya Sabha.” He clarified his position on the issue of the Yakub Memom hanging and pointed out, “I did not write to the President seeking clemency for Yakub. Having said that, I do not see anything wrong in moving such a petition.”