http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/The-elusive-roles-of-Ray%E2%80%99s-Man-Friday/article14017550.ece

wanted to do the role of Goopi in Goopi Gyne Bagha Byne when I first heard Manik-da [as Satyajit Ray was referred to by his close associates] was planning to make it,” reminisced Soumitra Chatterjee on a mild winter morning in Kolkata.“By then, I had developed an amiable rapport with him having known him for 10 years and having already acted in six of his films.” The legendary thespian completed 81 years on January 19. He’s an actor who was in 14 Ray productions, with over 300 films in a career spanning 56 years. Chatterjee has also been part of over 30 theatre productions mostly as playwright, director and actor. He has 15 poetry collections to his credit included in a list of more than 30 publications. Chatterjee is also a painter with exhibitions that have started showing up in the last few years.He is busier than most in the industry, does two back-to-back theatre productions in a day, even today and has been cleaned off a prostate cancer scare a few years ago. His body of work and his elegant movement within the different streams of art — both performing and creative — is at times astounding and at other times deeply reassuring. Chatterjee is indeed an incomparable genius; probably there isn’t any other Indian actor who is so diverse, talented and yet so humble that most often than not, you miss him in the cauldron of half-baked personas who can never measure up to him by any standards.Well-defined roles“But the profile of Goopi was that of a poor village farmer,” says Chatterjee. “He had to have a certain raw, rural look which I lacked. I kept on telling Manik-da that if you give me a chance I will do well. I was quite confident of that. He never discouraged anyone so he would smile and then say, ‘I know you will do the role very well. But it doesn’t match with the image of Goopi that I have in my mind’. I had nothing to say after this. But after I watched the film I told Manik-da that Tapen Chatterjee who played the role did it from within and I probably wouldn’t have done justice to the role the way he did. Tapen was just too good as Goopi.”However Goopi wasn’t the first film which Chatterjee wanted from Ray and couldn’t act in. Kanchenjungha (1962) was Ray’s first colour film which jibes at the moral decadence of the affluent Bengali middle-class of a time when they prided in their mimicry of the West. Ray thought of Soumitra initially as Ashoke, the unemployed youth who would meet Monisha for the first time in the mountains.They developed a genteel fondness which was yet to grow any further to infatuation, leave alone love. Chatterjee’s dates clashed with the shooting dates since he had already committed his schedule to another film.“When I went to meet Manik-da after they returned from Darjiling post the shooting of Kanchenjungha , Manik-da in his usual banter told me: ‘It was good that you didn’t play Ashoke. If you would have played it and even if I wanted the film to end with many open possibilities, the audience would have anyway assumed that there would be a love-story once they meet in Kolkata later. My open-endedness would have been killed.’ I think he was correct, I have already started playing the romantic hero in Bengali commercial films by then and was becoming popular.”Chatterjee has always got liberties with Ray. “Manik-da seldom used to direct me a lot,” he says. “I could sense what he wanted. Only in Shakha Proshakha (1992) he would discuss the role in more detail since I was playing a mentally deranged person. I was very keen to play Manmohan in his last film Agantuk (1992) as well which was later played by Utpal Dutt.” Like for Goopi , this time as well, Ray didn’t agree with Chatterjee playing a profile that was not matching Ray’s mental-image of the character.“Manik-da told me ‘your image will make the audience believe that this stranger cannot be anything but a nice, honest person. But I want to have some suspense that’s why the person needs to be a little grotesque in his mannerisms’, I had nothing more to tell him but accept.”The Ray-Chatterjee duet was one of the finest in the history of world cinema resembling the same camaraderie that was there between Akira Kurosawa and Toshiro Mifune or Ingmar Bergman and Max Von Sydow.In 1990, Cine Central Calcutta organised a retrospective of Chatterjee’s films and it was then that Ray paid his tribute to an actor he discovered in Apur Sansar (1959) and nurtured for the next three decades. “I don’t think there is any need to give a certificate to Soumitra. Of my 27 films, Soumitra featured in the main roles in 14 of them. This itself will prove what trust I have in him and how I value him as an actor. I do know that to the last day of my artist’s life, my dependence on him will remain intact,” Ray said.The author is a freelance writer. He has authoredBeyond Apu: 20 Favourite Film Roles of Soumitra ChatterjeeThe Ray-Chatterjee duet was oneof the finest inthe history ofworld cinema