http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/The-accidental-rockstar/article14019590.ece

Shillong is alive with the sound of Bollywood. Farhan Akhtar and the cast of Rock On!! 2 are busy shooting in and around the capital city of Meghalaya. Rock On!! introduced the audience to Farhan’s acting and singing abilities. The sequel will be no different. “I have recorded three songs for it,” says the actor.The music, as the title of the film suggests, will be within the genre of rock. “But it’s evolved over the last eight years. That was more garage rock-like. Now, the music is a lot more contemporary,” he says. The movie is set to release in November this year.Ten films old and Farhan says he doesn’t have a preferred film genre, but he does like drama. He also enjoys action movies. “We have grown up in an era where every film ended with an action sequence,” he says. Farhan’s last release, Wazir, is perhaps the only action film he’s acted in. About his upcoming projects, he’s looking forward to the movies he’s producing: there’s Baar Baar Dekho, a rom-com, and Raees that stars Shah Rukh Khan.Actor, director, singer, producer, writer — he’s ticked all of that. Is there something else he wants to experiment with next? “For now, I want to explore and challenge myself more in these areas,” he says.It’s been a little less than three years and Farhan Akhtar is going to be back in Chennai to perform here for the second time. The event was scheduled to take place in December last year, but had to be postponed due to the floods. “I am looking forward to it. This is our way of getting some good cheer back to the city.”All the recording for Rock On!! 2 did serve as a good practice session for him for his live performances. There are quite a few lined up this year. Prior to Chennai, he will perform in Pune, Lucknow and Delhi. The concert will feature all his hit tracks, including ‘Senorita’, ‘Dil Dhadakne Do’ and ‘Atrangi Yaari’... “No matter how much you plan, you end up doing something else,” he grins and adds, “We just hope people have a great time.”(Farhan Live, organised by Touch and Vajra, will be held on February 6 at 7 p.m. at Amir Mahal Palace, Teynampet. For tickets, log onto bookmyshow.com and eventjini.com)