http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Motoring/The-cross-connection/article13992106.ece

In the past few months I have often wondered why the crossover cars are making good sales. Are the manufacturers, with their offerings, pushing the customers towards them or are the latter pushing the former. Is it that the demand is taking precedence or is it the supply? Or do they go hand-in-hand? These questions make me wonder if the auto sector’s market system is, if at all, true to the laws of economics. The fact is that crossovers are a fad. In line with this trend, Fiat launched just a few months back its Avventura powered by Abarth. I drove it for some time around this past week.The vehicle, no doubt, does nothing in its designing from the exterior to put you off. Rather, it is likely, that a sizeable majority of people would appreciate it. Yes, it is fancy looking and stylish. But the age-old adage ‘looks can be deceptive’ or ‘all that glitters is not gold’ fits this one. You try and open the boot once and it is likely that you revise your New Year’s resolution. This time to never use the boot again.Yes, press the button to pull the spare tyre. Press it harder this time. And, pull it aside to the maximum. Now, lift up the metallic door of the boot. To close, reach out to the sky to get hold of the door of the boot. So jump up and push it down. Well, it’s not done yet. You have to literally bang the spare tyre back to its position so it locks up nice and steady.I go on the inside with high expectations from the 140bhp turbocharged petrol engine. It is powerful. And, I am all brimming with excitement to test the performance of this speedster. It has enviable acceleration. Here is an extremely strong surge of performance and the engine keeps pulling harder and harder till it gets to 6,000 rpm. Such is the acceleration that you are pinned to the back of your seat as soon as you push your right foot down. The disc brakes all around are strong and equipped to bring down the speed smoothly.Fiat claims 0-100kph acceleration in 9.9 seconds. And, in real world it appears much better. But, at high speeds the steering doesn’t hold tight enough. And, it requires some extra effort to keep the car in control.The discomfort of holding the steering, the cramped up space for the people in the rear, and the sub-standard seat adjustment levers are some such features which you wouldn’t much enjoy.Though, there are comfortable seats, good cushions, easy gear shifts, and of course, once more, nice acceleration. This one priced around Rs.10 lakh makes you wonder in more ways than one about the future of crossovers.