http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/music/The-sum-of-a-song/article14012129.ece

At the recent 89th music conference of the Music Academy Madras, its President N. Murali concluded his address at the Sadas by reflecting on the unexpectedness of the youngest ever chief guest, the mathematics wizard and Fields medal winner Manjul Bhargava, conferring the prestigious Sangita Kalanidhi title on one of the youngest to receive that recognition, Sanjay Subrahmanyan.During the festival, the two men in the spotlight were seen breakfasting together and making back-to-back presentations on the penultimate morning of the lecture demonstrations.The fact that Manjul Bhargava had learnt to play the tabla under another wizard, Zakir Hussain, added a piquant touch to the proceedings. Conversely, star vocalist Sanjay, a qualified Chartered and Cost Accountant, reflected a statistically intriguing mirror image.So what do music and mathematics have in common? Plenty, if you were to go by what they shared with us. In brief, Bhargava made a strong case for aspiring mathematicians to take an active interest in music, stressing the symbiotic relationship that exists between the two disciplines. Sanjay proved the same point in the way he knows best – by offering an eloquent musical tribute to his teachers.All this and more are a matter of record and will be available in the Academy’s archives.What is of greater interest is to try and guess exactly what might have transpired between the two off the record. What did they talk about, these two mathematical and musical trapeze artists? Denied of any authentic information from the human species, one had little option but to approach an informed fly on the wall, one that had had several years of rich and varied experience listening in on sensitive conversations at the hallowed portals of the Academy. And this is what our friendly fly heard.“Sanjayji, a great English mathematician once said the real tragedy about Ramanujan is not his early death. It is, of course, a disaster that any great man should die young; but a mathematician is comparatively old at 30, and his death may be less of a catastrophe than it seems... Do you see any parallels in the music world to support that view?”“Interesting point, Manjul. May I call you Manjul?”“That is my name, Sanjayji.”“I know. Just wanted to know you’re all right with my dropping the ‘ji’ bit. I am six years older.”“Quite, quite, no issues.”“Forgive the digression. Getting back to Ramanujan and the age factor. At the Academy’s inauguration on December 15 — you weren’t there — I made the point that age-wise, 47 is the new 32. Rather neat, don’t you think?”“Oh, I like that, Sanjayji. 47 minus 32 equals 15. And you said it in 20 (15). Beautiful. It’s so cool when numbers just fall symmetrically into place like that.”“Why do you think I said it? The true beauty of the structure of a complex pallavi is that it should not feel complex. The final resting place of a pallavi should be a smooth landing, neatly at the samam. While on the subject, tell me Manjul, how do you respond to the general view that the Carnatic laya system is far more intricate, mathematically speaking, than the Hindustani system?”“Good question. My guru tells me that the tabla bols may sound simple, but are only deceptively so. It’s like me completing a complicated quadratic equation in a matter of seconds whereas the lay person may pore over it for hours. Forgive me, Sanjayji, if that sounded immodest.”“It did, but we’ll let it pass. Let me assure you, Carnatic musicians are not the last word on modesty either. Unless it’s false. You still haven’t addressed the Carnatic laya system, Manjul. We have a tendency here to look down our noses at your simple teen taal offerings.”“Right, I agree. Carnatic layas are very complex and very fast. Half beats, quarter beats, one-eighth beats, and the vocalist, violinist and the entire audience slapping their thighs to a pulp. In your quaint phrase, this collective ‘talam putting’ must be terribly off-putting to the percussionists. That said, it is no wonder we’ve seen so many brilliant mathematicians and scientists from south India.”“Even you are half South Indian, Manjul, on your father’s side. Kerala, I believe. But thanks, in a roundabout way you have answered my question. Ok, here’s a quick numbers question that I am sure will stump you. I’ve been dying to ask you this. What was the number of electrons and protons that the famous astrophysicist Sir Arthur Eddington calculated is contained in the universe?”“I’ll have to take a deep breath, Sanjayji. Right, here goes. 15 747 724 136 275 002 577 605 653 961 181 555 468 044 717 914 527 116 709 366 231 425 076 185 631 031 296 protons in the universe, and the same number of electrons.”“That was pretty close to showing off Manjul, but I must admire your super human memory. Even the late Shakuntala Devi, India’s human computer, would have given you a standing ovation. Of course, I myself sing for hours in concerts without a scrap of paper in front of me. Ask anyone.”“So I’ve heard, Sanjayji. That makes two of us. Show-offs, I mean. Ha ha. I love this good-natured banter, don’t you? All right, let me return the favour. Here’s one for you. I hear you’re a board game geek. Pick the odd one out from this list. Blue Moon Legends, Lost Cities, A Game of Thrones, Ra and Tigris & Euphrates”.“Easy peasy. A Game of Thrones – the only one in that list not designed by Reiner Knizia, the man I had name-checked in my acceptance speech.”“Touché, Sanjayji.”As the two men walked off into the sunset, our friendly fly on the wall thoughtfully ruminated that in 89 years neither he nor any of his ancestral flies had ever heard a conversation like this in the venerable Academy.