http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/radio-and-tv/The-abominable-bride/article13988477.ece

It’s been only a week into the first month of 2016, but I believe that I’ve already watched the best of what television has to offer this year in the new “holiday special” episode of Sherlock. The BBC show, which premiered in 2010, is the modern adaptation of the classic detective story, and has seen resounding success across the globe. And with good reason: the screenplay moves at a blistering pace, and more importantly, the completely unexpected casting, which compels you to not accept anyone else as Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson other than Benedict Cumberbatch and Martin Freeman (no, not even Robert Downey Jr. and Jude Law).The holiday special episode is a one-off release, perhaps to assuage fans who’ve been waiting for the fourth season (due to release in 2017), after the third season ended on a cliff-hanger in 2014.While I’ve been infatuated with Sherlock for a good four years now, I found the last season mediocre at best. The writers had given the ruthless detective emotions, which made him care; made him human. This irked me, for one of the qualities which made Sherlock so worthy of the idolatry was his cold-blooded, and hardboiled nature. After all, why would you idolise anyone who is similar to yourself? I wasn’t alone with this complaint, and given how unrelenting Sherlock was in The Abominable Bride, it looks like the writers have taken note.The episode begins with a quick flashback to the previous seasons, after which, “alternatively”, we are taken to 19th Century London, where Sherlock Holmes is a famous detective whose adventures are chronicled for the newspaper by his trusty aide, Dr. Watson. There’s a new case, too — a woman, dressed up as a manic bride, stepped out into the public and created chaos, before shooting herself in the head. The police have come to the spot, and taken her body to the morgue. Six hours later, the same woman, Emelia Ricoletti, comes back to take the life of her husband. The case remains unsolved, only to get resurrected several months later, presenting Sherlock the opportunity to take another crack at it.The pace of the episode is breakneck, and you don’t lose interest even for a single moment, which is rare in 90-minute episodes. Cumberbatch’s acting is as incisive as his cheekbones, and Martin Freeman is perfection as the loyal, well-meaning and occasionally bumbling Watson. The dialogues are top-class, and deserve a second and, maybe, even a third watching, proving that the Victorian setting wasn’t going to slow the episode down in any way. An hour in, the episode tilts to the present, and takes off from where it ended the previous season. This may sound complicated on paper, but the writing ties all loose ends in an immaculate manner. Overall, this holiday special was an absolute treat to watch, and the perfect springboard for the fourth. 2017 couldn’t come quicker.(Sherlock: The Abominable Bride will air on AXN on January 10 at noon)