http://www.thehindu.com/features/homes-and-gardens/home-finance/The-rise-of-the-millennials/article13988513.ece

Millennials are by far the most redefining generation to have appeared over the past five decades. Several traits drive their lifestyle choices, not least among them being a much higher acceptance of diverse lifestyles than the previous generations. Millennials have, however, started displaying a decisive return to conservative behaviours and choices, show a marked tendency towards traditional values.In the Indian context, millennials see good education as first important step to achieve their life goals, and will diligently pursue a degree in their chosen academic fields. For them, loving and respecting their parents is a highly desirable trait, will conscientiously avoid vices in order to protect their health, seek to have stable marriages and will bring up their children with the right kinds of values.As millennials consider stability an important factor, owning a home earlier rather than later is a given for them. The previous generation often gave less weightage to this important ingredient of financial and emotional security, choosing to live in rented homes and using their funds to play the market. This approach was based on the assumption that property is just another investment instrument, and that it does not give the exciting returns that the stock market can yield.That generation ignored the fact that a self-owned home sets the family free from a lifetime of bondage to landlords, and that its value lies not only in appreciation but also in the fact that it negates the negative monthly outflow of rental money for good. Indian millennials have therefore placed home ownership very high on their list of priorities.Another defining characteristic of these millennials is high level of ‘savvy’. With the Information Technology boom influencing almost all minutiae of day-to-day life, the Indian millennial is an avid seeker of knowledge, especially in subjects that affect their life goals. As a result, the process of finding and buying a home is driven by a need to understand all the variables, study all available options and then make a prudent purchase decision. Even in other fields, these millennials are dedicated investors, but the kind who do not wish to take high risk. This is one of the reasons why mutual funds are popular among them, since they present an acceptable level of risk coupled with reliable returns. Though they are conservative with their hard-earned money, they will not purchase into inferior goods — one of the main reasons why the cheap, unreliable electronic devices which found so much favour with the previous generations are completely passé today. Such an attitude also reflects in their choice of homes, which is why most of them will deal only with branded developers who are adequately capitalised and have a proven track record for consistent quality and timely delivery of their projects.The writer is Managing Director, Pride Group