http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/The-live-wire/article14010179.ece

Earning respect as a prominent rapper, Hard Kaur is the first Indian girl to have ventured into the male dominated industry of rap music. Having given Bollywood many hit songs like “Glassy”, “Char Baj Gaye” and “Move Your Body”, Kaur continues to generate party music with the latest, “Aise Karte Hain Party”, being a little too obvious.The track has already been described as the party anthem of 2016 and has garnered more than half a million views in just two days of its release.Along with a peppy beat, one can see Bollywood’s best in the video. The video features actor Manish Paul, choreographer Saroj Khan, actor- director Punit Issar, Cyrus Broacha, Gaurav Gera, Raghu Ram, Diandra Soares and Jenny along with actors from the TVF series.When asked about her experience while working with all these personalities, she says, “With all the jokes going around, Manish’s teasing personality and Saroj Khan’s adaayien, the atmosphere was always lively.”Kaur says it took her 12 years to master rap. “One has to keep writing and practice breathing to master the art,” she explains with a wink.She has also collaborated with Eminem’s band D12 (Dirty Dozen) and has a lot to say about it. “I got lucky, I think. My friend told me they were in town and asked if I wanted to do a track with them. They saw my work and agreed to collaborate. I told them about Punjabis and butter chicken, Amitabh ji and Dharam ji along with some other ‘Indian things’. They have also reflected their knowledge in the song’s lyrics which says, ‘I ain’t a Raja, I’m a Maharaja’, ‘sitting in Bombay, sipping on Maaza’. All I can say is that it was one hell of an experience.”For all the upcoming female Punjabi rappers, Kaur suggests that they should pursue music only if they are really passionate about it and not just for fame. “They should be passionate and have the conviction, enthusiasm and dedication to make a mark in the industry no matter what the world has to say about it.”About her acting endeavour after her role Patiala House, she says, “I am very excited for the role of a don’s daughter in the upcoming movie Ticket to Bollywood. I’ll be making Vinay Pathak’s life hell!”