http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/entertainment/The-motorcycle-diaries/article14005067.ece

Dhruv Dholakia was bitten by the travel bug in his teens. A wide-eyed curious boy, he travelled to South Africa (where his parents lived) and back several times, always taking a detour in another country en route. When he turned 20, he travelled solo to Italy and Dubai. But gradually, his life shrunk into a room, filled with books when in college, and later, with a laptop, phone and reams of papers in the Netherlands-based banking firm (where he worked for 10 years in Mumbai). Monotony competed with relationship issues. What followed next was inevitable: stagnant job, and a divorce.That’s when Dhruv decided to hit the road. Dhruv quit his job in March 2014 and spent the next few months reading travel books, taking writing courses, practising yoga… and learning to ride a bike. It’s been three months since he started his solo journey from Mumbai, covering Pune, Goa, Karnataka, Kerala, and now, Tamil Nadu, on his Enfield Bullet (named Nandi). He aims to cover all 29 states in 14 months and 14 days. The reason? To motivate more youngsters to travel.“Though the desire to travel has been there inside me all the time, certain things just trigger it,” he says, sipping on cold coffee. “For me, it was Steve Jobs’s biography.” He was intrigued by the entrepreneur’s life, his take on yoga and India (Jobs is said to have been at a spiritual retreat in Nainital in the 1970s, and advised Mark Zuckerberg to do the same). “As Sadhguru (Jaggi Vasudev) says, there is no such thing as a ‘life’s calling’; your life is here and now. You first need to ask yourself: what do you want to be? And once you do that, just be. I wanted to be a traveller, so I first became one. It’s only later that I sat and thought about all that I would need to become one.”But what about the money? “A person spends around Rs 8 lakh to get an MBA degree, but my whole trip will probably come to just around Rs 3 lakh,” he says. Stopovers cost him around Rs 500 or less per day: he stays at hostels, homes, ashrams and small hotels. . “And they are good. I stayed at Vedanta Wake Up! in Varkala with a bunch of foreign travellers, and at a homestay in Alleppey. In Coimbatore, I spent my days volunteering at the Isha Yoga Centre, and in Chennai, I am staying at the Iskcon accommodation. And the best part? You learn much more than what you learn in a management school. Also, once you have learnt to explore places, be at peace with yourself and others, you become fearless. I am not scared about not getting a job; I know I will.”Dhruv has no plans of falling back into a routine. After seeing the Triveni sangam (the point the Arabian Sea, Bay of Bengal and the Indian Ocean meet) at Kanyakumari, the line of windmills en route to Madurai, the sculpted Apsaras at Hampi, the coffee plantations in Coorg, the wide-barren beauty of Dhanushkodi, he says, “I want to continue travelling, and share my stories.”