http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/The-border-sentinels/article14016028.ece

Miles away from family and friends in an area surrounded by snow and barbed wires, the Diwali celebrations of S. K. Singh and his uniformed colleagues are limited to praying in a makeshift temple followed by hugs and exchange of sweets. The cheer doesn’t last long as Singh immediately orders his men to move to neutralise a sudden infiltration bid on the border. “It is our duty to safeguard the borders so that others can celebrate Diwali and that gives us happiness,” says Singh. It is not a piece of fiction heightened by sounds of violin on celluloid. It is a scene from the documentary BSF: India’s First Line of Defence, a fitting tribute to the yeoman service and sacrifice rendered by Border Security Force, world’s largest border-guarding force. Cut to the action shots that provide glimpse of the force in action in Naxalite-prone areas of Central India where they were inducted after having proved their mettle in Jammu and Kashmir and Punjab. The planning and briefing of this crack commando unit is intriguing but what gives goose bumps are the action shots of the team led by Anubhav Sinha, assistant commandant – painted black and green – making war movies pale in comparison.To be aired on National Geographic Channel, the documentary sincerely attempts to match the scale of the force. From BSF’s training centre in Tekanpur to different border areas, it provides a first hand account of the force’s operations in extreme climates and harsh terrains.The audience will realise how hard training and discipline has turned these men to adapt and function efficiently in all circumstances as they will see them trudging in deep Himalayan curves donning snow jackets, boots and goggles keeping a strict vigil on possible border intrusions. Similarly on the lookout of illegal intruders and drug runners, they seem completely at home on foot or astride camels in the blistering and harsh Thar Desert where temperatures soar beyond 50 degrees Celsius.However, The Rann of Kutch shots make Thar scenes seem like a cakewalk. Protecting the border of salt desert they risk skin burn, blindness, dehydration, heat stroke while operating in extreme climatic conditions during summer, floods and winter. The task becomes doubly difficult as the border is unfenced.The mental and physical conditioning of the personnel is to be seen to be believed. Taking to water like fish they guard the borders on Sir Creek and Sunderbans lush mangroves on fast patrol boats, wading through marshy areas while in Tripura they make it through thick green jungles wearing net masks to protect themselves from plasmodium falciparum the world’s deadliest malaria parasite.This multi-dimensional force is tasked with policing the borders 24x7 during peace time and dons the role of professional soldiers when at war. BSF’s role is best described by its motto “Jeevan Pariyant Kartavya” (duty unto death). “Be it the war on the Western borders or militancy in Jammu and Kashmir or insurgency in the North East or the challenges posed today in the Naxal-affected areas or any other international security challenge, name it and the BSF has been there,” says D. K. Pathak, the force’s proud Director-General.On the lighter side, the documentary’s footage of the BSF men in a theatrical show of strength during the Beating Retreat ceremony are thrilling highlighting the powerful stamping of feet, twirling of moustaches and exaggerated rolling of eyes. Overseeing it, the dashing Assistant Commandant Ran Singh Mangawa, a third generation serving the country, says, “I have been commanding Attari and it has got its own jazba and junoon (emotions and passion).”But these are the same men who organise several medical camps, sports activities and distribution of books along the remote and poverty-stricken border areas. Not just rough and tough, the border men are equally adept in tasks requiring delicate and sensitive handling like providing escort to trains from Pakistan and Bangladesh to ensure no untoward incident takes place besides protecting the farmers tilling fields right on the borders.Wearing their love for the country on their sleeve and exuding responsibility, the BSF personnel – many of whom second and third generation in the force – want their children too to follow in their footsteps. This speaks volumes of the force, its charm and cohesiveness.(To be aired on National Geographic Channel, January 25, 9 p.m.)