http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/This-tanda-is-in-dire-need-of-development/article14002600.ece

In the middle of small bushes and trees, one can see about a dozen scattered houses. Not a single street is full of houses in a row.Konamma Cheruvu, a hamlet village of Varadarajapuram, is located at Jagadevpur mandal of Medak district. The white coloured mighty farmhouse of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is visible from the outskirts of the village, which is hardly two kilometres away.“My marriage was arranged when I was nine-years-old. Now I’m 65. We came here from Erravalli to take care of our fields a few decades back, and have been staying here since then. We trust Mother Earth and the situation is going out of control, as there have been no rains since the past two years,” Bejja Mallamma, a resident of the village, told The Hindu .There is about 70 acres of farmland adjacent to the tanda on which the farmers were dependent on to make a living.There used to be around 18 families, but the number has come down to 11 in the due course of time, as the earning members of the families have migrated to urban areas for better prospects. There are no roads to the village, no transport and no streetlights. It would be difficult for anyone to walk down to the village after sunset.No toiletsSurprisingly, not even a single house in this village has a toilet, and everyone – the aged and the women – opt for open defecation.To catch any nearest transport facility, one has to walk three kilometres. Varadarajapuram and Damarakunt are located three kilometres away, and Erravalli in located at a distance of four kilometres.“We are on tenterhooks till our wards reach house in the evening. Our blood pressure increases after 6 p.m.,” said another villager Bhikshapathi. One Premalatha of the village discontinued her education due to lack of transport facility.Have they ever approached Mr. Chandrsekhar Rao in the last one-and-a-half year? Not even once. There is no specific reason for that. “Do we need to meet the Chief Minister to change our fate?” asked one villager innocently.