http://www.thehindu.com/features/magazine/This-takes-the-cake/article14001639.ece

It’s no surprise that people sometimes bring along cakes to a restaurant to celebrate a birthday or anniversary. And it is no surprise that restaurants don’t always like it. So, restaurants now charge customers to cut and plate the cake. Sometimes they add a scoop of ice cream. The practice has come to be called cakeage. It’s a play on corkage, the fee a restaurant levies to open a bottle of wine brought by the customer.Neal McCarthy, who owns Atlanta restaurant Miller Union with chef Steven Satterfield, takes things a step further. His private Instagram account is filled with photographs of cakes customers have brought, and pokes fun at them.Like many in the business, McCarthy views the practice of taking cake to a restaurant that employs a pastry chef an abomination. “Am I going to bring in my own piece of Wagyu beef or an appetizer I just whipped up at home and ask a place to serve it?” he asked. And, yes, he charges customers a cakeage fee.The issue of cakeage heated up in London last year, when a newspaper reported that one of the city’s top restaurants charged the equivalent of about $14 a person in fees. “Has the world gone mad?” one Scottish pastry cook posted on Twitter.Restaurant owners say cakeage covers the cost of the waiter’s time and washing the dishes. It also helps offset the loss of revenue from in-house desserts and makes up for the extra time a party will be at the table but not ordering food. And many hope it will slow the flow of outside cakes. Some restaurants, like Daniel in New York, simply do not allow cakes to be carried in.If you really want to take your own cake, here is a pro tip: Call the restaurant and ask for permission. It is a matter of courtesy and respect, said Emily Luchetti, the star San Francisco pastry chef. “If you call ahead,” she said, “nine times out of 10 you can talk to the restaurant owner and the person will probably say fine.”The idea that a restaurant would refuse to serve a customer’s cake, let alone charge for it, is the kind of policy that angers some diners and fuels Yelp rants, like one a few years ago in which a popular Boston restaurant, Stephanie’s on Newbury, was taken to task because the staff failed to keep an ice cream cake frozen, served the melted results, and charged $1 a person.The Norma Rae of the anti-cakeage movement may be Rose Levy Beranbaum, a cookbook author who has devoted her life to baking cakes. She drove the issue to the surface in a 2010 blog post she wrote after the Breslin in the Ace Hotel New York charged her $25 in cakeage.As she tells it, she, her husband and two friends spent $145 for lunch, then opened a small box with two slices of her deep chocolate passion cake. She wanted her friends, both food professionals, to taste it. They told the waiter and asked for forks and plates. They were rebuffed and endured a humiliation she still calls “the worst food experience I have ever had.”In several states, including New York, there are no laws prohibiting guests from eating their own food in a restaurant. Many chefs and restaurant owners say they try to be prepared for the customer who shows up with an unexpected cake because the practice is becoming so common. “It’s a restaurant and it’s the hospitality industry,” said Vinny Accardi, who runs Room 55 in Queens, which was featured in a recent episode of “Restaurant Startup” on CNBC. “The whole goal is to make people have a good time.” People show up at his small restaurant about once a month with a cake. “The owner in me says it’s stupid to lose a table of 10 or 12 people from not allowing them to bring a cake,” he said. He doesn’t charge a fee, but he thinks cakeage based on half the average price of a dessert is fair.The notion of bringing in one’s own cake is perhaps more offensive to pastry chefs than to restaurant owners.At WD-50, where a customer once arrived with a cake from Cold Stone Creamery covered with sprinkles. Sam Mason, the pastry chef, refused to touch it. Apparently, he didn’t want anyone in the dining room to see it and think it came out of his kitchen.But Bill Smith, who runs Crook’s Corner in Chapel Hill, North Carolina, tries to roll with it. “I just want people to have a good time,” he said. “They’re here for dinner, not attitude.”The New York Times News Service