http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/travel/This-Skye-is-a-super-star/article14026779.ece

It had been a long day, and all I wanted to do was hit the comfortable bed at Rose Inn in Portree. But the nippy evening air, strains of bagpipes in the distance and the lure of watching a stunning sunset drew me out. With my jacket and scarf firmly in place, I stepped out for a long walk — through a football field, past a deserted playground, the town square, shop windows displaying pretty figurines, and finally towards the pier where seagulls filled the evening air with their squalls. As I took a moment to stop and stare and watch the last of the sunlight glint off the ripples in the water, squealing kids chased birds on the pebble beach and the tempting aroma of mussels, and fish and chips from nearby restaurants wafted in the air. I knew I was in love – with Skye.I really don’t mean to sound like a gushing teenager, but the clean air of the Scottish island, its rolling green hills and its aura of mystery charmed my city-bred, weary-of-slaving-away-at-a-computer-for-most-part-of-the-year soul. As we made our way through the rugged landscape of the Scottish isle, I soaked in the beauty and mystery of its unpredictable weather. One minute the clouds would come rolling in, shrouding everything in grey, even as the mist teased your breath, and at the very next, the thick wisps would make way for the brilliant gold sunlight that lights up everything from the ruins of castles and blooming heather to the shimmering water in the distance. The one thing that remains constant in the Scottish countryside is the pristine beauty of its many lochs, grassy knolls and gurgling fairy pools.The best way to explore the island, of course, is by car; it gives you the freedom to navigate its winding roads, stop for short hikes or even a snooze on the cool grass if you’d like. I, however, chose to take a three-day bus tour from Edinburgh with the Highland Explorers. And I wasn’t disappointed at all. Nick, our friendly Scottish guide, was more than happy to regale us with stories of the island, its clans, their feuds, tales of love and scandaland even folklore, between showing us everything that makes the Isle of Skye one epic adventure.Day OneAs our bus trundles out of Edinburgh and makes its way over the stunning Forth Bridge, past rivers and mountains, we reach the quaint town of Dunkeld. With its cobbled streets and brilliant views of the River Tay, the town is home to the historic Dunkeld Cathedral, which boasts a mix of Gothic and Norman architecture styles. The cathedral sits pretty in a grove of trees right on the banks of the river. The weather is perfect and I spend a happy half-hour soaking in the sun, the place, the rustle of the leaves and the gentle gurgle of the river.Our next stop was at the legendary Loch Ness, rumoured home of Nessie, the monster. Nestled between lush green hills, the loch didn’t throw up any monsters for us, but did make for a beautiful afternoon, watching the gentle ripples wash up the shore before we moved on to the legendary Eilean Donan Castle around sunset. The now fully-restored castle that sits on a tiny island, where three lochs meet, looks like the stuff fairytales are made of, with its square stone structure and forlorn air about it.Day TwoA hearty breakfast of bacon, fried eggs, porridge and toast later, we made our way through the stunningly scenic Isle of Skye for a day of exploring the Cuillin Mountains, with the island’s many myths and legends. As we made our way to see the mysterious Old Man of Storr, Nick had for us stories of how an old couple were turned to stone by an elfin king, who misunderstood their desire to always stay together. From there on, it was to the beautiful Mealt Falls, where we were greeted by the unpredictable Scottish weather, with dark clouds lining the sky, lending an almost surreal feel to the place. Next, we headed to Duntulm Castle, the ruins of which stand on the north Trotternish coast.In the afternoon, we explored the oldest continuously inhabited Dunvegan Castle, that is the seat of the MacLeod clan. Sitting on a rocky outcrop on Loch Dunvegan, the castle has a walking tour for visitors with boat rides to seal colony. The grounds of the castle are home to some rare flora. The castle itself has many stories to tell, with its dungeons and associated legends that there are still captured MacDonalds down there, moaning in chains.Day ThreeWe bid goodbye to the beautiful island of Skye and boarded the ferry to the fishing village of Mallaig. After a delicious lunch of seafood chowder that was bursting with the flavours of fresh scallops and shrimps, we said farewell to some friends on the Jacobite steam train. We then made our way to a tiny beach just off Mallaig station. With its white sand and pebbled shore, clear water and rope swing, the beach is perhaps one of Mallaig’s better-kept secrets. From there, we made our way to the popular Glenfinnan Viaduct and hiked up a rocky hill closeby for a better view of the steam train, as it made its way across what is now popularly known as the Harry Potter bridge.After feasting our eyes on the dramatic scenery of Glencoe, as we were about to cross over to the lowlands and into Edinburgh, I took another moment, to just stop and stare — at the surreal beauty of the Scottish Highlands. After all, like William Henry Davies once wrote, ‘A poor life this is if, full of care, We have no time to stand and stare.’