http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Thiruvabharanam-sets-off-from-Pandalam-palace/article13998789.ece

A procession carrying the sacred jewellery, Thiruvabharanam, of the presiding deity at the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple started off its ceremonial journey from Pandalam on Wednesday afternoon.Hundreds of devotees thronged Pandalam on the banks of the Achencoil to witness the start of the procession. Unlike in previous years, there is no representative of the Pandalam palace to escort the procession following the death of a senior member a few days ago. The Valiyakoickal Sastha temple adjoining the palace and the palace were remaining closed following the death.The palace authorities handed over the sacred jewellery and allied ornaments kept in three wooden boxes to the Travancore Devaswom Baord (TDB) authorities in the morning. The jewellery boxes were kept at Puthenmeda attached to the palace from morning for the devotees to have darshan.KrishnapparunthuAs in the previous years, a Brahaminy kite, which the devotees call Krishnapparunthu, was sighted above the palace complex around 12.50 p.m.The temple priest (Melsanthi) performed the ‘arathi’ to the jewellery boxes. Loud chants of Swamiye Saranam Ayyappa rented the air and the procession began exactly at 1 p.m. A 22-member team of devotees headed by Guruswami Kulathinal Gangadharan Pillai is carrying the jewellery boxes to Sabarimala.Prayar Gopalakrishnan, TDB president; Ajay Tharayil and P.K. Kumaran, board members; C.P. Ramaraja Prema Prasad, Devaswom Commissioner; G. Muraleekrishnan, Chief Engineer; and D. Vijayakumar, Akhila Bharatha Ayyappa Seva Sanghom national vice president; were among those who attended the function.The TDB chief too joined the procession by foot. The procession reached the Puthiyakavu Devi temple at Ayroor in the evening.The procession will proceed to Laha Sathram from Ayroor on Thursday morning and will reach the Sabarimala Sannidhanam via Valiyanavattom and Saramkuthi on Friday afternoon. The presiding deity will be adorned with the Thiruvabharanam prior to deeparadhana, later.