http://www.thehindu.com/features/homes-and-gardens/Thiruvanmiyur-residents-win-case-against-city-Corporation/article14001516.ece

The floods that hit the city last month brought to light numerous civic issues that have remain unaddressed by the Corporation of Chennai (CoC). Sewage mixing with storm water and flooding homes was one such prominent issue that affected many localities. In East Kamaraj Nagar in Thiruvanmiyur, over 175 homes were flooded with rain water mixed with sewage.The East Kamaraj Nagar (North) Residents Welfare Association, Thiruvanmiyur, decided to take legal action and filed a case against the CoC at the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on December 23, 2015. Mahendar Natarajan, Secretary of the Association, says the locality was flooded as the storm water drains in the area are not connected to any water body. “There is no storm water drain network from Radha Krishnan Nagar to East Kamaraj Nagar (North). We have been raising this issue for four years and despite numerous complaints, no action was taken.”He explains that as water levels rose during the monsoon, the CoC pumped rainwater from Radha Krishnan Nagar to East Kamaraj Nagar (North), further aggravating the situation.Rain water that collects in East Kamaraj Nagar (North) has to flow through Thiruvalluvar Salai, Thiruvanmiyur LB Road signal, through West Avenue and finally into the South Buckingham canal. “As the storm water drain at the LB Road signal junction is in a dilapidated condition, the flow of water is restricted. A few years ago, the CoC had started constructing a storm water drain (precast) at this junction but stopped work midway,” he says.The Tribunal gave its verdict on January 12, 2016 in favour of the Association, and a combined exercise will be carried out by CoC and Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) to resolve the issue. The CoC is required to connect the locality’s storm water drains to the Buckingham Canal and has agreed to resume construction at an estimated cost of Rs. 5.54 lakh.After the case was filed, the Regional Deputy Commissioner (South), Chief Engineer, Superintending Engineer (SWD), and the Sanitary Inspector of CoC along with local residents inspected the site on January 9, 10, and 11. Illegal sewer connections given by a few hostels in the area were identified and notices issued against them under Section 44 of the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act 1939. “We have been promised that once the CoC obtains necessary permissions, work will be completed in three weeks.”The NGT is encouraging other welfare associations across the city to approach the Tribunal and seek legal action for similar issues. For details, call Mahender at 9444018130.