http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/society/Thoughts-to-deeds-to-words/article13980918.ece

University campuses are complete worlds in themselves; nicer worlds, with a lot of tree cover, rolling grass, big buildings, intense-looking boys, untidy-haired professors seen nowhere else on this planet, and of course, that inexplicable feeling that there is a story in every shady corner you turn.Therefore, those struggling with writers’ block, or aspiring writers trying hard to begin that first book, could do worse than take note that this lovely world can be the perfect setting for a book or even a scene. Be it cheesy campus make-out mush or literary endeavours fit to compete with the verbose speech of that most pompous grammar corrector you have personally locked horns with, the campuses will not let you down.However, since this article cannot become a book, we will restrict ourselves to a few universities and deal mainly with murder, horror, teenage cruelty and of course, romance.Let us begin with the rapidly growing metropolis of Bengaluru. When I was a student, many eons ago, itching to get out and hating everything in the University Law College, we moved to the Bangalore University campus in the then outrageously far-flung Nagarbhavi area, the hot-bed of newspaper headline grabbing rapes, murders and when enough time had passed - ghosts waiting to seek revenge. Our favourite pass-time in that dull world would be to “take a walk,” or in other words, spy on furtive couples discreetly placed behind a bush, an abandoned building or in some truly unbelievable cases - in the parking lot. A recent drive-through in the middle of a lazy afternoon made it seem like I had travelled through time. So, What if something bad happened to one of them or one of us? A good story wouldn’t it be?Every city has those colleges in those universities with those students – the ones who realise that it was a bad decision to be there but forced to graduate anyhow. Would such a student be driven to meanness, violence, murder or viciousness? Not really, but it’s a harmless enough topic to explore.Moving onto the library – your own college might have had polished oak benches and reams of good books with intimidating librarians or it might have been a veritable shrine to decay with librarians meek as mouse. Either way, this could be where the murder takes place, or the body is buried or where the librarian first starts to hallucinate, gradually leading him/her or it, to become deranged and perhaps kidnap someone? Remember Elizabeth Kostova’s The Historian where Dracula, yes that Dracula, the first vampire, kidnapped some professor to make him the librarian of his secret library?If you have been lucky enough to study in Delhi University or associate with it in some way, you would have realised by now that it could be and has been the setting of many a book. There all those neighbouring colleges, where stylish and energetic boys and girls can do more than spy on hapless couples.There is also that perfect, “love spot,” in the Ridge area. (For those not in the know, this is a thick park of sorts which was once a forest, and also a historical spot). The throbbing political atmosphere of protests, debates and commonplace lathi-charges or tear-gas engagement with the local police should give you enough material for any book.And, though this is enough to give you scratching material for that bestseller, we cannot really ignore that bastion of, “Left,” politics, where debates about the revolution over endless cups of tea are still commonplace – Jawaharlal Nehru University.So much green that the buildings are actually hidden until you suddenly come upon them, midnight dhabas, co-ed hostels and student politics with all-night public debates - this research-oriented institution which is usually declared the safest place in Delhi by most people living there, has seen its fair share of scandals recently - like an attempted murder in broad daylight ostensibly for unrequited love, public suicide, sexual harassment allegations, midnight accidents and an MMS scandal.Perfect setting for anything actually, even a vampire being born.