http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Thousands-of-students-yet-to-get-uniforms/article14024162.ece

Thousands of students in the district are unlikely to get uniforms even by the end of this academic year due to irregularities in selection of stitching agencies. Although the uniforms have to be supplied before December, 2015, the material has not yet reached the agencies concerned, thanks to a row between new entrants and the existing agencies.According to sources, the government supplies around five lakh uniforms to the students who are studying in government schools in 38 mandals of the district. The government spends around Rs. 2 crore as it pays Rs.40 per uniform as a stitching charge. The agencies which get the orders will take the help of local tailors to complete the process as per the time stipulated. However, this time several new applicants with the recommendation of people’s representatives have approached the district administration to get the orders which incurs the wrath of the existing agencies.The old agencies, which were taking up the works for the last twenty years, argue that new applicants did not have experience in stitching and they would completely depend on local tailors. They also argue that hundreds of workers depend on the government contract as it would take more than six months for all the agencies to stitch over 5 lakh uniforms.To overcome the hurdles, the district administration recently issued new guidelines making it clear that the agencies which have proper infrastructure would be given the orders. The existing agencies allege that physical verification of infrastructure has not been done properly.Association pleaSrikakulam Stitching Workers’ Welfare Association leaders Savvana Umamaheswari, V. Venkata Ramana and others have urged the intervention of Srikakulam Collector P. Lakshmi Narasimham and Joint Collector Vivek Yadav to check irregularities in selection of agencies.“Many agencies have been depending on the government works although the stitching charges remained at Rs.40 per uniform. The government should protect the existing agencies since many workers get livelihood constantly,” says Uma Maheswari.Officials of Education and Rajiv Vidya Mission have denied the charges of the association and said that new entrants are being encouraged to finish the work as early as possible.According to them, the existing agencies are unable to complete the process in time as they have to stitch over 5 lakh uniforms.“The agencies are getting huge income every year with the regular contract. It naturally makes others to apply for the contract. The tussle between them led to delay in distribution of uniforms by the end of last year,” says an official.WHO IS TO BLAMEGovt. supplies 5 lakh uniforms every yearRaw material is yet to reach stitching agenciesStitching agency getsRs. 40 per uniformOld agencies cry foulover selection process