http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/kolkata/Three-of-family-found-dead-in-Kolkata-apartment/article14002368.ece

Three members of a family were found dead on Saturday inside an apartment in South Kolkata's Palm Avenue area.“The dead have been identified as Jessica Fonseca, 42, and her two sons Darren and Joshua ,16, and Neil Fonseca, 49, husband of Jessica is in the hospital with serious injuries,” Debasish Boral, Special Additional Commissioner of Kolkata Police [Crime] told The Hindu .The three bodies were found inside one room of the three-room apartment. Three kitchen knives with bloodstains and a 25-pound dumbbell were recovered from the crime scene.While the deceased had cut marks on throat and injury with a heavy blunt object on the head and the injured Fonseca, an interior decorator, had cut marks on throat and hand.Senior Police officers said that they [Police] have asked the doctors to ascertain whether Mr. Fonseca’s injuries are self-inflicted or somebody has attacked him.According to the Mr. Fonseca’s statement to the policein the early hours of Saturday, Jessica started a fight with him. She stabbed the two children and attacked him. It was in a fit on anger he attacked her with a dumbbell. “These statements are subject to investigation and confirmation,” Mr. Boral told journalists.It was only in morning when the room did not open, the other residents of the apartment informed relatives and police.Preliminary investigation points out that a family dispute could have resulted in the murders. In the statement to the police, Mr Fonseca has admitted that his affair with another woman, a few years ago, was the reason for discord between the couple.Interestingly, other than the three victims and Mr. Fonseca, four other persons were inside the three-room apartment. However, none of them heard any noise from the room where the four were sleeping.According to the police while Mr. Fonseca’s daughter, a student at Pennsylvania and his mother were sleeping inside one room, his sister-in-law and another woman were in other room.