http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Threads-with-history/article13980795.ece

With Pongal around the corner, the festive tradition decrees ‘out with the old, in with the new’. And so, urging urban shoppers to spruce up their homes and wardrobes are two craft fairs in the city.At Valluvar Kottam, the Cotton and Silk Fab 2016 is a hub of stunning variety of handloom weaves from a pan-Indian spectrum. Amidst the whirl of colour, texture and design, the creations of two weavers make heads turn. Aglow in jewel-bright emerald, amethyst, sapphire, ruby and topaz hues, the Bhagalpuri silks from the looms of Rakesh Rajak (Bihar) make a statement in minimalist elegance. Narrow borders and striped pallus in complementary shades are the only embellishment these saris need, for that special occasion. “Each sari takes 20 days to weave and the demand outstrips the supply,” says Rajak. “But our focus is on quality, even if means producing fewer pieces.” The sensuous glide of pure tussar, eri, dupion and gicha silks is accentuated by a brilliant palette.Remember the stories about superfine, pre-Independence muslin that could be passed through a finger ring? The fabled beat-the-heat Dhaka muslins have now emerged in new avatars that exude contemporary appeal. Checks, stripes and knotted weaves in innovative permutations infuse fresh life into gossamer muslin-matka blends in natural tones of cream, white and beige, while dyed solids are vibrant in mint green, crimson, purple and turquoise.“The yarn is sourced from Bangladesh and worked by paramparik karigars,” explains Soumo Pathak (West Bengal), whose entire family contributes to the finished product. Vivid batiks and floral block-printed, lightweight cottons, ideal for daily wear and the workplace, are an added bonus. On washing, the cotton assumes a satiny texture, a speciality of this fabric. “Quality weaves straight from the loom at half the retail price is our USP that ensures a loyal clientele,” affirm the craftsmen. Other varieties include Sanganeri, Bandhej, Pochampally, Baluchari, Jamdani, Uppada and Gadwal saris and silk-pashmina stoles. Ragas and adavus attract art buffs to Kalakshetra, with many of them heading enthusiastically to the Rajasthan Gramani Mela at the same venue, opposite the Pamban Swamigal temple. Parimala and Balan from the village of Pattamadai, in Tirunelveli taluk, famed for ‘pattu pai’ are fifth generation artisans, who continue the traditional craft of mat weaving, featured at the fair. “We source bales of korai (sedge) grass as both natural and dyed fibre,” explains Parimala.“We also make colours to order, dipping the sun-dried grass in vats of azo-free dyes that colour fast, even when frequently washed. For the finest silk mats, the korai gathered from the river bed is soaked in running water for a week or more. The pith is removed and the stem spilt into very thin strands. There are four basic weaving techniques. The woven strands are joined breadth-wise in hand-stitched segments, to form a smooth continuous surface that has tensile strength. Silk or cotton threads may be used in the weft. Much of the labour is done by women from village households, for whom it is a sustainable livelihood. Three textures are available — coarse, medium and fine. The finished mats are edged with a fabric or zari border.”In-demand products include the compact prayer, exercise, yoga and place mats, full-length sleeping mats, pencil cases, boxes, storage containers and bags. Lightweight panel windows and verandah blinds with geometric motifs are new additions. Painted wooden jharokhas, metal artefacts and sculptures, gemstone jewellery and block-printed fabrics are also available.Both exhibitions are on till January 13 at Valluvar Kottam and Kalakshetra from 10.30 a.m. to 9 p.m.