http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Three-films-from-EMRC-to-be-screened-at-national-science-fest/article13998603.ece

Three films produced by the Educational Multimedia Research Centre (EMRC) of the University of Mysore have been shortlisted for screening at the National Science Film Festival to be held in Mumbai next month. It is for the first time that three films from the State have been finally shortlisted of the 144 entries from all over the country, EMRC director Prof. Niranjana Vanalli said.The three films throw light on various aspects of environmental issues plaguing the State. One film is titled ‘Depleting ground water table - a cause for concern’ and it features the unfolding crisis in Chamarajanagar district.“More than 3 lakh coconut trees have perished in the last few years due to depleting ground water and the film tracks the crisis with inputs provided by natural farmer Kailashmurthy,” said Prof.Vanalli. Directed by Syed Kaleem, the film captures the gravity of the situation in the district.The movies is interspersed with comments by Prof. A. Balasubramaniam, a geological expert, on the excessive use of ground water in the Indian scenario and how water table has depleted from a depth of 10 feet in 1964 to more than 500 feet in 2012.The second movie ‘Barricading elephant menace’ highlights the man-animal conflict in the Mysuru region with focus on elephants and the recent project launched by the authorities to have a permanent solution by way of installing rail fence. “The traditional methods have failed and the authorities are experimenting with rail fence method followed in South Africa. The film tracks the ongoing efforts to mitigate the conflict situation,” Mr.B.Sreekantachar, directed of the film, said.The third film- ‘ Kaanmane nurturing nature’ - directed by Prof. Niranjana and produced by K.Gopinath traces the environmental resource centre created by the local village forest committee with renowned environmentalist Shivanand Kalve.“We use the place to conduct workshops on environment,” said Prof.Vanalli, who pointed out that the movie brings to fore the environmental conservation issues and rainwater harvesting mechanism developed there.Each movie is for duration of 15 to 20 minutes and will be screened at the Nehru Science Bhavan, Mumbai, from February 9 to 13.