http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/Three-children-killed-in-Old-Usmanpuri-blaze/article13994018.ece

A fire broke out in a slum cluster in north-east Delhi’s Old Usmanpur on Saturday night, claiming the lives of three children and injuring another.The children were engulfed in the flames when the burning thatch of their shanty collapsed, almost as soon as their mother stepped out on hearing a commotion.The deceased have been identified as sisters Reena (7) and Meena (4) and their younger brother Mubarak (seven-months-old).Their neighbour, Shukruddiun (7), also sustained serious burns and has been admitted to Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital.Though the cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained, residents say it began with a burning candle at Shukruddin’s house before spreading to other shanties. As many as 11 shanties were gutted.The deceased lived with their parents, Rakim alias Kallu and Bhadauri. At the time of the accident, Rakim had gone out to collect plastic from the dumps for recycling.“It was around 11.30 p.m. that Bhadauri, who was sleeping, heard a noise. As she came out of the house, the roof fell on the three children inside. Her children were burnt in front of her,” said a neighbour.The fire spread so fast, with small LPG cylinders bursting as well, that people did not get a chance to save their belongings. Two buffaloes also suffered burns in the incident.An official from the fire department said: “We pressed 12 fire tenders into service that managed to douse the flames by 12.30 a.m. on Sunday.”Locals, however, alleged that there was a delay in the arrival of the fire tenders, which caused more damage.Fire officials denied these allegations saying that had it not been for their swift action, the damage could have been worse.Delhi Commission for Women chief Swati Maliwal also visited the site.“We called in doctors from Jag Pravesh Chandra Hospital to attend to the mother of the deceased, who was in shock. A temporary arrangement has also been made for the families who lost their home,” said Ms. Maliwal. She said the Commission would demand compensation for the family of the children who were killed and for the parents of the child who is currently in hospital.