http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Tickets-please/article13994100.ece

Movie buffs have something interesting to look forward to this weekend with Last Bus. The Kannada thriller, based on an original story and backed by a stellar cast, tracks six strangers who get on the last bus to Bengaluru from the interiors of scenic Malnad, only to encounter the supernatural in a nail-biting narrative.The second film of S.D. Arvinda after the critically-acclaimed Jugaari, Last Bus attempts to create a unique experience for movie lovers with it’s stylistic storytelling, camera work and songs.The movie features Avinash Narasimharaju, Prakash Belawadi, Manasa Joshi, Meghashree Bhagavatar, Deepa Gowda, Rajesh P.I. and Samarth Narasimharaju among others.Director Arvinda says the term psychological mystery thriller was coined to represent the holistic outlook of the movie. “It started over an idea about the concept of fear. People like horror movies because they like the appeal that fear has. However, to call the movie a horror film would be putting it is layman terms. It doesn’t suffice when it comes to our film. There are psychological elements, a whole lot of thrills and mysteries that remain unanswered in the movie.”The idea took root over a Whatsapp group, Arvinda recalls. “I sent it to 14 people from different backgrounds in the group and together we emerged with this concept. The movie is, however, complete only with the audience’s reaction. They will have to find some of the answers to the questions in the film themselves.”He adds that he is depicting a scenario that can happen to anyone in Last Bus. “The climax is the message for the audience to ponder over. There are elements for everyone to identify with whether they believe in the supernatural or not.”Actor Avinash points out that the movie has been an amazing journey. “From the technical aspects to acting, releasing and marketing, it has been fantastic. This film has been like a master’s degree for me, especially with the art direction that I did. I don’t know if anyone else will get an opportunity like this again.”He adds that the film will stay with the audience long after they’ve watched it. “We are sure it will make a lasting impression. A lot of people around me have experienced these kinds of phenomena but it hasn’t happened to me. They are close friends. I believe them completely but some of the incidents they say are unbelievable. I trust them but it makes me think. When you experience it, you can’t explain it.”Avinash further says that Last Bus helped him understand the passion of filmmaking. “The idea of narrating personal stories is interesting. We hope people realise that this is a benchmark and follow it. Maybe somewhere they’ll say this was the movie that set the trend. Otherwise, I hope people recognise our movie and say we need more movies like this.”Deepa adds, “ Last Bus was a great opportunity. I’ve learnt a lot in this movie. Everyone helped me and it has been an enriching experience. The subject is also amazing. I’m sure everyone would have an experience like this and they will all relate to it.” Last Bus is opening on January 15 and will have English subtitles.