http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Mangalore/Tight-security-does-not-dampen-the-spirits-at-R-Day-event/article14022624.ece

Despite tight security, there was no let-down in the spirit of children who danced with aplomb in the hot and humid conditions during the Republic Day celebrations here on Tuesday.Security had been tightened in light of general threat of disturbance during Republic Day celebrations. More policemen were deputed at the Nehru Maidan. Armed men from the quick reaction team of the District Armed Reserve were posted along the periphery of the maidan.The celebrations began with the march of the police personnel into the maidan that was led members of the Police Band.Strict vigil was maintained on those entering the maidan. The police did not allow people to stand along the fence of the maidan facing the Police Commissioner’s office, to watch the proceedings.Students started their presentation with the popular farmer song, “Negilu Hididu Holadali Haaduva…”This song was followed by dances to several Kannada and Hindi patriotic songs.Earlier, Forest and Environment Minister B. Ramanath Rai took the guard of honour and witnessed a parade by policemen, firemen, NCC cadets, Bharat Scouts and Guides and children involved in regulating traffic.Mr. Ramanath Rai presented the Sarvottam awards to Range Forest Officer P. Sridhar; Section Officer in the office of Superintendent of Police, Ravichandra P.; First Division Assistant, Deputy Commissioner’s Office, B. Hyder Ali; First Division Assistant, Deputy Commissioner’s Office, Prabhakar; Superintendent, Department of Women and Child Welfare, Manjula; and Attender, Horticulture Department, Ramesh. He also felicitated Mangaluru Police Commissioner M. Chandra Sekhar and Assistant Commissioner of Police Madan Gaonker on being conferred with the President’s Medal for Meritorious Service this year.In the evening, Karavali Gaurava Prashasti was given to 90-year-old Olinda Pereira, who is the director of Vishwas Trust, in recognition of her philanthropic work.Vintage carsSeveral vintage cars and two-wheelers were seen in the vintage vehicles exhibition held at a corner of Nehru Maidan.Among those on display included Willy’s Jeep and the 1954 model of Fiat Elegant owned by a doctor Nidarsh Hegde. A 1953 Mercedes, a 1929 Ford and a 1967 Mercedes were on display. Among the two-wheelers that were showcased included a 1968 Lamby and a Rajdoot GTS motorcycle.