http://www.thehindu.com/features/kids/Tigers-of-the-skies/article13999379.ece

The falcons came to roost with the setting sun. One minute, the skies were clear blue, startling against the green-clad mountainsides of River Doyang, in Nagaland. And then, in minutes, a strange hum filled the air. It was as if a million birds were chirping high-pitched at once.I sat cross-legged on a bamboo and wooden machan, and watched as half a million Amur falcons came in to roost. The skies darkened, the sound of their beating wings filled the air and the trees around the Doyang reservoir sank with the weight of the visitors. The falcons had been here for nearly three weeks now and would be around only for another week. They would be off again, chasing the migrating dragonflies across the Indian peninsula, and the Indian Ocean, before arriving on the coasts of Eastern Africa.For close to a month every year, these birds, which breed in the high Altai of the Russian Far East and Mongolia, fly the 20,000-odd kilometres to escape the cold winters. And their longest en route stop is home to a proud and ancient Naga tribe, the Lothas.Youth brigade“They say we Nagas eat every thing that moves,” a Naga minister told me when the Wildlife Trust of India first went to Nagaland on hearing about the horrendous killings of the falcons.In the winter of 2012, tens of thousands of birds had been caught by Naga tribesmen and eaten. They had upturned their fishing nets and added protein to their rural diets.“You can agree with them and do nothing about it,” I replied, “or you can agree with them and do something about it. For, nobody expects conservation of wildlife in Nagaland.”Luckily, the government of Nagaland, the village chieftains of Asha and Pangti villages and the local youth were galvanised into action. They banned the hunting of these birds. They formed a local Amur Falcon Protection Union and they caught and punished those who broke the law. The Wildlife Trust of India and a few other NGOs responded by giving the volunteers monetary support, building them watchtowers, and also by giving the village councils money as a compensation for leaving their lands to the falcons for that one month. What was a blood bath became a conservation miracle and hundreds of thousands of birds were saved from then on. There were BBC documentaries on the phenomenon, the villagers won awards from state and central governments and the falcons were unharmed that year and also the next.Meanwhile, the Wildlife Institute of India collared two birds, which were named Asha and Pangti and tracked them as they migrated to Africa, back to Russia, and then cheered as they came back to Nagaland the next year.There are many reasons to celebrate this. Falcons are supreme predators, the tigers of the skies, and saving nearly a million birds is no small feat. Second, the Amur falcon is a champion migratory bird, linking cultures and nations by its miraculous flight. Third, the Naga tribe, known to be as fierce as the falcons and not given to conserving animals or birds, have shown the world that they are as graceful conservationists as they are proud tribesmen. And finally, the falcons were saved by the boys and girls of the villages. It is the Youth Union that patrols the area and protects the birds and this is a great victory for the young naturalists in India.As I rowed along the Doyang with Merry, the secretary of the Amur Falcon Union and cut free a few birds that had been unintentionally caught in the nets, I felt a wave of relief wash over me. For the falcons were safe in the hands of their once predators and could fly free in the knowledge that they could make Nagaland their stopover in their next, great journey.Vivek Menon, wildlife conservationist, author and photographer is Founder and Executive Director of WTI and a Senior Advisor to the International Fund for Animal Welfare