http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Timber-allowed-back-on-Kallayi-riversides/article13990216.ece

Once again, the Kallayi river, which used to be one of the world’s top names in timber trade, will be allowed to have the once-ubiquitous mounds of huge timber logs on either banks.The government has decided to lift curbs on storage of timber on the sides of river Kallayi. The ‘property mark’ registration for timber storage, suspended since 2010, will be resumed. The decision was taken at a meeting of officials concerned and stakeholders two days ago, based on a report filed by Chief Conservator of Forests (Northern Range) earlier.The report, a copy of which is in possession of The Hindu , had recommended that concession in rules be provided to merchants doing business in Kallayi and similarly placed merchants in other parts of the State.Sawmill owners and timber merchants had been following the conventional mode of storing timber on rivers side. The authorities used to provide ‘property mark’ for the stored wood, till 2010.A property mark registered is valid only for the particular depot mentioned in the certificate of registration.Due to the provision of specification of a depot in the rules, the Divisional Forest Officer has been insisting on details of the storage yard. The merchants provide an affidavit declaring details on the storage land, but even those who possess land adjoining the river often do not store timber there. The report said the timber was stored on both sides of the river, close to the banks, without obstructing the course of water.The merchants have been following the practice of entrusting the logs for storage to ‘Mooppans’ or regional caretakers. Each log is marked with the merchant’s code and serial number. ‘Mooppans’ manage to tie the logs together during high tides and take them to convenient spots for storage. They also take the logs to the sawmills whenever required. The report said that “the system of timber storage for accounting purposes were quite correct and comparable with any timber accounting or storing system”.RegistrationThe property mark registration of many merchants is set to expire soon. The All Kerala Sawmill & Wood Industries Owners Association had taken up the issue with the government. The government nod will be a boon to a number of wood based industries, A. Salahudeen, vice-president of the organisation, said.The government had promised to ask the local authorities to provide land on river banks on lease to the timber merchants. It was decided at the meeting that the property mark registration would be renewed under such lease agreements, he said.