http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Time-to-say-halo/article14026837.ece

With high level of pollutants and toxics emitting from exhaust fumes of vehicles damaging not only our lungs but also having a harmful affect on our entire body, particularly skin, one is curious to know how treatment at a spa can be a panacea for the ills.So an assignment to cover Jiva Grande, a luxury spa chain of the Taj Hotels, made me feel how people in Delhi – tired from the daily humdrum routine of travelling from office to their workplace – can get themselves rejuvenated and rearing to have a go at the week ahead.As soon as I entered the spa I was greeted by expert hands who informed me that the best of ancient Indian wisdom and modern therapies have been put together to get the desired comfort and relaxation.While wondering how the treatment would give me the healing touch, I was pleasantly surprised to know that I was heading to the halotherapy room. I was overjoyed to know that I would be inside this special room, also known as Salt Room, for 40 or maybe 60 minutes.Before getting inside the enclosed room, I was made to wear plastic headscarf, gloves and shoe cover. I felt that I was about to embark on a special mission. Initially, I did not feel much but as the time progressed I felt more and more relaxed in this secluded room as the precious sea salt started getting turned into aerosol by the halo generator. My nostrils started getting accustomed to inhaling them and made me feel more relaxed, agile and lighter.“The Salt room had over six tonnes of imported salt from European mines,” said Dr. Vinod Balakrishnan, the Spa Director. In earlier times, he said, people went to salt mines and oceans to restore their health. “Salt is exceptionally beneficial for one’s skin, hair, joints, respiratory system, basically for all your body parts! The negative ion of the salt puts the person in a relaxed mode and the changes occur at a cellular level.”I also went through the Belana therapy in which rolling pins of different sizes were rolled all over my back and legs. The therapy was a great stress buster and relaxed my muscles.The therapist rolled the smaller pins on the sole of my feet and I could experience the tension leaving my feet.Later, while sipping an Ayurvedic juice at the juice bar, I was informed that the spa meal, a combination of traditional cooking techniques and modern gastronomy, comprises fresh, natural and balanced foods.“Today, people are disconnected from their own selves. Their stressful lives do not give them any time for relaxation. The philosophy of a spa is all about going back to one’s self. These therapies help you give time to your body and mind. It is like a journey within” expressed Dr. Balakrishnan.Services at the spa include signature experiences like Vishrama, Sushupti, Vishuddi and Lavana. Indian therapies like Pehlwan Malish and Indian Aromatherapy are also offered.