http://www.thehindu.com/business/Industry/Titan-launches-JUXT-smartwatch/article14010170.ece

World’s fifth largest watchmaker Titan Company Ltd, of the Tata Group has unveiled JUXT, a smartwatch in partnership with global technology giant HP Inc.The company said the watch is aimed at providing connectivity while staying true to the essence of classic watchmaking.The smartwatch is priced between Rs.15,995 and Rs.19,995 and is available in three variants — titanium, stainless steel and rose gold — across select World of Titan, Helios and large format stores.Speaking about the product, Bhaskar Bhat, managing director, Titan Company said, “Today, as we take our first step into the world of smartwatches, we once again, place the consumer at the heart of our approach. Our offering is a classic timepiece with features that are useful and relevant.”The timepiece features a subtle honeycomb dial, 3D indices and a leather strap. This watch can be paired with smart phones having either Android 4.4 or iOS 8.1 and above operating system.S. Ravi Kant, CEO, Watches and Accessories, Titan Company said, “JUXT is India’s most stylish smartwatch. It has been designed for those who are appreciative of classic watches, yet want smart capabilities in their time piece.”“Today, there is a growing segment of consumers with an entrepreneurial mindset. These individuals convert their passion into work and feel the need to be constantly connected as they collaborate and turn their ideas into reality. Titan JUXT has the right amount of features for this consumer who wants to stay connected, yet express his personal style.”Mr. Kant said that partnering with HP Inc. was a natural choice for a product of this nature.Elaborating on the association Sridhar Solur, General Manager, Wearables and Smart Platforms, HP Inc. said, “The smartwatches segment is booming with innovation and at a time when product offerings are heavily infused with technology, there was an opportunity for Titan and HP Inc. to create a smartwatch that is suited the tastes of consumers who appreciate the quintessential leather watch with smart capabilities. JUXT keeps the wearer connected and alert, but does not intrude in his daily life.”