http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/TN-not-preventing-influx-of-loggers-says-State/article13986163.ece

The Tamil Nadu government is taking no action to prevent the influx of woodcutters and smugglers into the Seshachalam forests in Andhra Pradesh for red sanders smuggling in spite of inter-State meetings between the officials of the two States, a senior official of the AP Forest Department has said.The official, who did not wish to be named, said there was a feeling that Tamil Nadu government was not cooperating with AP. Meetings between police and forest officials of the two States were held in January and April last year. Prevention of Red sanders smuggling was one of the important subjects discussed during the Southern Forest Ministers conference held at Trivandrum in October last.“It was one of the core subjects at the meeting and top officials discussed in-depth on the measures needed to curb it. Tamil Nadu agreed to take preventive action but nothing has translated. There is no visible impact on the ground to prevent the influx”, he added.He said there was a large influx of woodcutters in the last two to three months. This was in tune with the trend of increased smuggling activity before Pongal every year. On an average 200-300 woodcutters sneak into Seshachalam forest area each day with some of them coming in the guise of pilgrims. A few theerthams ( religious places) dot the Seshachalam forest area. “ These people come throughout the year, while genuine pilgrims come during Sankranthi and Sivaratri”, he added.The official said that 45 metric tonnes of red sanders logs were seized and 180 woodcutters, smugglers were arrested in the last three months. On Tuesday, nine from a group of 18 woodcutters were apprehended in the forest area by task force personnel at Mamillamanda, about 10 km from Tirumala enclosure. He said AP has requested TN government to prevent the influx by providing sustainable livelihoods in seven districts bordering the State. Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu has written a letter to his TN counterpart too. “If robust welfare measures are implemented, it will definitely help in preventing the influx and curbing smuggling activities,” he added.