http://www.thehindu.com/sport/cricket/TNCA-meets-on-Lodha-panel-report/article14008104.ece

The Lodha panel report, it has been learnt from sources, was the only item on the agenda during the Executive Committee meeting of the Tamil Nadu Cricket Association here on Tuesday.The report, which many believe will have “far reaching consequences”, was debated upon during the 60-minute meeting. The Executive Committee of the TNCA consists of 25 members including the office bearers.TNCA president N. Srinivasan chaired the gathering. Among those present were TNCA vice- president P.S. Raman who is also heading the BCCI’s legal cell that is looking into the Lodha Committee’s report.Talking to The Hindu, TNCA secretary K.S. Viswanathan said: “It [the Lodha Commision report] is a long one, consisting of just over 300 pages. It has to be studied in detail.”Viswanathan said: “We have asked each member of the Executive Committee to read the report thoroughly and come up with their suggestions. Every opinion is important and we need to look at all of them.”“We have asked the Executive Committee members to revert to us in three to four weeks by which time the next meeting will be held. Then we will take stock.”Afterwards, in the next phase of its response to the Lodha Committee recommendations, the TNCA plans to involve all its 31 district associations and 181 member clubs to come up with their views on the subject. “The TNCA President wants all stakeholders to be involved in the process, have a say,” Kasi said.Therefore there is a strong possibility of the emergency general body meeting of the TNCA being convened in late February, or March.Apart from issues that would have a bearing on its own association, it is believed that the TNCA has received requests for support from members States in Maharashtra and Gujarat who stand to lose much if the Lodha panel’s proposed “One State, One team formula” comes into effect.The TNCA, according to sources, has already written to the BCCI seeking more time to come up with its reply to the Lodha Committee recommendations.The Board had wanted the member States to revert to it by January 31 but that clearly does not appear to be happening.