http://www.thehindu.com/features/education/Top-3-apps-to-help-you-stick-to-your-resolutions-in-2016/article13990369.ece

As a new year begins, you can leave the setbacks behind and start afresh with a new resolve. It marks the dawn of another chapter of your life, filled with numerable opportunities. Here are some apps that can help you stay on track and stick to your goals.QS World University RankingsIf you are applying to colleges this year, this app can help you in sorting out the best colleges for the course you want to pursue. You can conduct your search by either entering the name of the institution, the location you’re interested in, or the region. The app has three options for checking the ranking of the colleges: overall, subject or personal. After selecting the college you are interested in, you can view its subject rank, overall rank, academic reputation, employer reputation, faculty-student ratio, citations per faculty, number of international faculty, number of international students, size of the college, research quality, fee information for various courses and much more. (http://bit.ly/1PPu1O9)Fabulous: Motivate Me!All of us make New Year resolutions for leading a healthier lifestyle, but, as the year passes by, the resolve becomes weaker. This app provides science-based suggestions to increase your energy, feel vibrant, control weight and sleep better by following a healthy routine. It provides personalised training for achieving your goals. First, it asks you what you want to focus on — feeling energised, sleeping better, improving focus and concentration or losing weight and eating healthier. Once you select an option, your ‘journey’ starts. The app provides ‘healthy habit’ tips, helps you add reminders, set challenges and shows you a timeline and the success rate. You also unlock achievements as you complete the activities you have set for yourself throughout the day. (bit.ly/1GJdf0W)Monefy - Money ManagerIf you tend to spend money, forget about it and wonder later on why you are broke, this app can be your lifeline! It allows you to create a list of categories you spend on, quickly add new records, check your spending distribution on an informative chart and get detailed information from the transactions list.The interface is simple and easy-to-use. It has a budget mode where you can specify your monthly budget. The app then shows the amount you can spend daily and notify you if excess amount is spent. You call also add its widget on your homescreen for easier accessibility. (bit.ly/1suB53A)