http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Tough-time-but-gift-time-too/article14004536.ece

Assembly elections are round the corner. With each passing day, tension mounts as political parties and leaders begin their preparations for the polls which would decide whether they would find themselves on the winning or losing side. There would now be the inevitable scramble for seats and that cannot but cause trepidation for many of the sitting MLAs. But these are also days when the MLAs are showered with a wide variety of goodies, mostly given by Ministers. When members of the last Assembly went their different ways, they took away with them many a gift. The story may not be any different this time as well, if one were to go by what is being planned by different departments and the Legislature itself.The Legislature Secretariat, sources say, is planning to present the MLAs with 16 GB Apple iPhone 5s when the House disperses after the budget session planned for early February. The iPhones will cost the exchequer Rs. 50 lakh. There are some who feel that this is a little too much, but their reservations are unlikely to come in the way of the MLAs being presented with the costly phones. The iPhone from Speaker N. Sakthan and the Legislature Secretariat would be just one among the many gifts awaiting the MLAs. From available indications, several departments have begun steps to procure gifts for the MLAS. Former Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac had presented mobile phones worth Rs. 35,000 to each of the legislators and their personal staff when the last Assembly ended its tenure. His Cabinet colleagues P. K. Sreemathy and Elamaram Karim, Health and Industries Ministers in the Achuthanandan Cabinet, had followed on Dr. Isaac’s footsteps by presenting medical kits, dinner sets, travel bags and briefcases to the legislators.The indefinite fast being undertaken by Kerala Congress (M) leader Jose K. Mani in Kottayam from Monday to press for urgent measures from the Centre to stem the fall in rubber price appears to have ruffled many a feather among his friends and foes alike. The younger Mani is under attack from both within the ruling alliance and the opposite side of the political spectrum for his fast plans. The first salvo came from none other than P.C. George who came up with the disclosure that though the KC(M) leader claims that his will be an indefinite fast, the KC(M) has booked the fast venue only for four days.Even before the social media ended its celebration of the disclosure, Congress MP Anto Antony from Pathanamthitta came up with the claim that he had talked with Union Minister for Commerce Nirmala Sitharaman on the rubber crisis and wrested the assurance that Rubber Board would be reconstituted immediately and that the Union government would sympathetically consider the demand for ban on import of natural rubber for six months. Now, everyone is waiting to see if someone in the BJP leadership would also have something to say about Mr. Mani’s proposed fastThose holding the security brief at the Aluva palace guest house in Ernakulam are a harried lot these days. The palace is a convenient and, therefore, chosen stop-over of politicians of all hues, particularly those in power. Two persons who frequent the palace, situated strategically on the National Highway and close to the Nedumbassery airport, are Chief Minister Oommen Chandy and Leader of the Opposition V.S. Achuthanandan. But it appears that there are other powerful ones wishing to be there.Those running the palace found to their dismay that these guests are not ones who could be taken lightly. For, they were a family of cobras, led by a King Cobra. They put the guest house staff on notice about their presence when the place was being spruced up. The terrified employees alerted personnel of the Forest Department, who reached the place post-haste. However, despite their best efforts, they could not trace the quarter where the royal family of the slither-world lived. Now, the guest house employees have their eyes on the ground even as they look out of the ornate gates of the palace awaiting the next VIP visitor.With inputs fromS. Anil Radhakrishnan (Thiruvananthapuram), George Jacob (Kottayam) and Hiran Unnikrishnan (Kochi)