http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Thiruvananthapuram/Transferred-teachers-need-take-charge-after-exams/article13983877.ece

Even though orders for transfer and posting of higher secondary teachers would be issued right away, teachers need take charge at the new posting only after the annual examinations are over, Education Minister P. K. Abdu Rabb has said.Speaking at a meet-the-press programme at the Thiruvananthapuram Press Club here on Tuesday, Mr. Rabb said the last date for pointing out anomalies in the preliminary list was January 8. A final list would be brought out on January 11. The argument of teachers’ organisations that transferring teachers ahead of the annual examination would lead to a lot of confusion was totally acceptable.Accordingly what is happening now is approval of transfers that were done before the case went to the Kerala Administrative Tribunal. Along with this, the next round of transfers and postings would be announced immediately. The Education Department has decided that these teachers need not take charge immediately, he clarified.The transfer of higher secondary teachers snowballed into a controversy amid allegations of anomalies and violation of norms. The norms which were finalised after discussions with teachers’ organisations in May 2015 stipulated that teachers working in their home districts for five years or more be transferred out. This was opposed by many teachers on the ground that the seniority list of teachers were yet to be framed. There were also allegations of lack of transparency regarding submission of norms for transfer.Following an order of the Kerala Administrative Tribunal, the government had set up a four-member committee headed by Additional Chief Secretary V. S. Senthil to look into the alleged anomalies. The Committee decided that the existing vacancies for transfer be published online. The post of a teacher who had completed five years in a place would be treated as an open vacancy. The committee also decided that teachers opting for transfer to home districts and those who were transferred out be allowed to choose the district and school they prefer.The committee also decided that a provisional transfer list be published and that teachers be given time to submit complaints if any.