http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Mangalore/Traffic-issues-come-to-the-fore/article14005799.ece

Although adequate space is available for halting buses in front of a jewellery outlet at Karavali Circle (Kankanady), buses continued to be halted at the circle, creating traffic snarls. Why can’t the traffic police make drivers stop the buses in front of the outlet and make people board buses there itself ?Drawing the attention of all at a consultation meeting on city traffic issues at the Town Hall here on Monday, Walter Menezes of Namma Mangaluru, said that halting of buses at circles had become a nuisance in the city. The police should impose heavy fine on such drivers.Rohan Shree of the Aam Aadmi Party said that the Transport Department should think of allotting permits for operating city buses to satellite areas, without them operating via the city. For example, he said that if a commuter from Padil wanted to go to Surathkal, he would have to take a bus that operated via the city, now. It was because there was no bus operating from Padil to Surathkal via Pumpwell, Nanthoor, Kottara Chowki on NH 66.G. Hanumantha Kamath, president, Nagarika Hitarakshana Samiti, said that Mangaluru City Corporation allowing buildings to come up without providing enough parking space was one of the major reasons for the growing traffic problems in the city. When Harish Kumar was the Commissioner of corporation, he had ordered for demolition of 169 buildings in the city for violation of building norms. Of them, 56 buildings had not provided enough parking facilities. Why can’t the corporation demolish those buildings now, he wanted to know.Referring to a building at Hampankatta, he said that the space where Tokiyo Market had come up now was meant for parking place. But the corporation has provided door number and trade licences to shops there. How could the corporation do so, he asked.The participants listed out the lacunae, including lack of lane discipline, menace of shrill horns, parking of buses on the road, lack of bus-stands, lack of parking stands for autorickshaws, petty shops occupying footpaths and the like.J.R. Lobo, MLA, Mangaluru City South convened the meeting with Mayor Jesintha Vijaya Alfred and traffic police.City South MLA Lobo convenes consultation meeting at the Town Hall