http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/Transforming-the-greying-structures-to-pristine-glory/article14023950.ece

The transformation of some of the restored Qutub Shahi Tombs is stunning to say the least. The greying darkling tombs with shrubs growing out of cracks and flaking plaster are a thing of the past. Or at least a few of them that have been restored the way they were constructed in the first place.Glossy finishNowhere is the change as visible as at the hammam (Turkish bath) near Badi Baoli. “We have removed four layers of concrete plasters before we could reach the original structure,” says Nitya Khendry, one of the conservation architects working on the project. Inside the hammam with sunlight streaming in through the light hole, the light yellow wall has the glossy finish of a mirror.“It has been finished the way it was built in the first place. The lime plaster is mixed with crushed marble and the colour is from tesu ke phool (palash),” informs Prashant Banerjee working on the project.This is not the only change in the hammam.The restoration effort revealed that the entrance to the hammam was at a lower level and the arcade around the Badi Bouli was constructed much later during the time of Salar Jung.The conservation effort has created work for hundreds of skilled labourers who are working almost round the clock for the massive restoration effort that includes 73 structures spread over more than 100 acres of land.Spreading the techniqueIf the restored Mohammad Quli Qutub Shah’s tomb is getting a dressed stone parapet just like the other tombs, the Aga Khan Trust for Culture is also helping spread the technique of lime plastering.In a huge area, in a series of tanks, slaked lime is being processed for use. “We soak the lime for nearly two months before it is used. It is sieved and then mixed with various organic materials like molasses (for stickiness) and wood apple (water proofing). Only then it is applied. For finishing one tomb without any marks, we employed a huge number of workers to give the final coat on a single day,” says Ratish Nanda of AKTC who is spearheading the conservation work. The smooth finish and the even look of the monuments have made many photographers unhappy. “I want to assure them that after one monsoon, the monuments will have the same photographic texture as before but without the harm and seepage that was an issue earlier,” says Ratish with a laugh.Currently, the AKTC is busy with the Abdullah’s mosque which was damaged by layers of concrete plastering. “We have restored one of the minarets and we are in the process of completely restoring it to pristine glory,” informs Prashant.Now, it remains to be seen how the legal challenge mounted to stop the work plays out in the courts.