http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Food/Tradition-with-a-twist/article13999449.ece

Say Pongal and it is the aroma of simmering ghee that comes to mind. Crunchy peppercorns add that spark to the fluffy venn pongal, while roasted cashews bring in the fun to the gooey sakkara pongal. Though a staple at most South Indian breakfasts, pongal really becomes the hero during the harvest season, when farmers step back to revel in their bountiful harvest, and the women cook a feast using the fresh produce.In keeping with tradition, rice and lentils are cooked in a clay pot till the pongal boils over, on the morning of the grand harvest. The preparation of venn pongal is still a quintessential part of festive celebrations in most households. Though the essence of the day is to keep the preparation as simple as possible to lessen the workload, today, there are many ways a cooking enthusiast can upgrade the simple recipe.Traditionally, Pongal is a combination of rice, protein, fat and spice, cooked to a mash. I use three parts rice to one part lentils. (Traditionalists use either two parts rice to one part lentils, or an equal blend of both.) I then mix in a choice of vegetables.Though that is not part of the original recipe, it adds colour and flavour. Instead of tur dal or moong dal, if say, channa dal, green gram, black gram or any other type of lentil is used, the taste and texture, inevitably, change. Further, try innovating with tamarind, coriander seeds, coconut, jaggery and spices such as cardamom to pack in more flavour.Since the festival itself is synonymous with food, take it a step further and explore your culinary talents. Give your pongal an international avatar by throwing in different herbs and vegetables. For instance, replace pepper and cumin with spices of your choice, such as cinnamon and chilli flakes, and add herbs such as oregano, instead of curry leaves. You can’t go wrong with these experiments, since rice and lentils are naturally compatible with spices and herbs.Make a New Orleans pongal with some capcisum, aubergines and zucchini, and finish it off with a smattering of rosemary and red chilli flakes. Or, just give the dish a Punjabi twist with black dal and cream, with black cardamom, cinnamon, cloves and bay leaf for spice. For an Italian edge, make it like a risotto and add a layer of flavour with cheese, which will complement the vegetables as well.To indulge your sweet tooth, tinker with the classic Sakkara Pongal by replacing jaggery with karkandu (sugar candy) for a cream-coloured sweet dish. If you are in the mood to experiment further, add white chocolate and call it a white chocolate risotto. As per the traditional recipe, rice and lentils are soaked for a while and then cooked with water in a pot. When it boils over, jaggery and coconut are added. For a healthier variant, you could replace the rice with broken wheat or bansi rava.Though pongal is a traditional dish with a recipe that doesn’t call for much complexity, it is an easy one to experiment with as well. Make it spicy or creamy, throw in some vegetables and nuts to add texture, and it will simply add a contemporary culinary edge to the harvest season staple.Mexican PongalIngredients:Raw rice – 1 cupMoong dal – 1/4 cupOne-inch piece of ginger – 2Asafoetida – 2 pinchesCorn – 1/4 cupTri-coloured capsicum – 1/4 cup of each colour, dicedCheddar cheese – 1/2 cupCumin – 1 tbspCashew nuts – 2 tspWhite pepper – 1 tbspCurry leaves – 1 tbsp, choppedGhee – 4 tbspSalt to tasteMethod:Soak the dal and rice for an hour.Sauté the asafoetida and ginger in two tbsp ghee and add it to the dal and rice. Pressure-cook with four cups of water for 3-4 whistles.After the pressure releases, open and mash.Sauté cashew nuts, curry leaves, capsicum, corn, white pepper and jeera in two tbsp ghee. Make sure you don’t burn anything while frying.Add it to the mashed rice and dal.Add grated cheese and mix well.Koushik Shankar is a food consultant, chef and city-based restaurateur