http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/Traditional-manja-makers-upbeat/article14000284.ece

“What is the difference between these two types of manjas?” asked Rajesh, who was at Mohammed Iqbal and Sons kites store at Dabeerpura. Snap came the sound four seconds later. Without replying to him, Mohd. Rahmat asked his helper to hold a strand of both the pink and brown threads, and ran them against each other, with the latter snapping in an instant.That was shop owner Rahmat’s way of telling Rajesh that hand-made manja is stronger and better than the Chinese manja, known as Tangus in the market. After a decade of seeing his traditional manja making business wane, the State government’s latest order banning the Tangus has given a new lease of life to Rahmat and several others.“In fact, we made manja today morning as well. This is the final year for the Tangus, and we will start preparing for next year very soon,” said Rahmat. He explained that before the Chinese manja flooded the kite markets about 10 years ago, traditional manja makers used to have work for about eight months a year. About 20 metres from Rahmat’s store, 55-year old Mohd. Jawed Khan was busy applying a pink and fluorescent mixture of glass, rice and egg on white thread. Mr. Jawed, who learnt the trade from his father, took to driving an auto over the last few years after workers deserted the manja making business once the Tangus became the preferred choice by wholesalers and kite-flyers. A full-time auto driver now, he is ready to return to his trade after learning of the ban.“But it will be very hard to get workers back to this field. Shop owners pay us just Rs. 50 per roll, and we can make about 20 rolls a day. The money I make will not be sufficient to pay to my workers,” Mr. Jawed said. Busy applying the ‘manja masala’ on the white thread, he said that the ban on Tangus should have come years earlier, as most of the workers had deserted the profession to take up odd jobs, or had become auto drivers.For shopkeepers, however, it will now be back to giving orders in advance to manja makers at Dabeerpura and Dhoolpet. Unlike Tangus which they can procure over a phone call, they will now have to order the quantities of manja they require well in advance.