http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Vijayawada/Traffic-restrictions-imposed/article14019094.ece

In an attempt to avoid traffic congestions in the city during the Republic Day celebrations, without compromising on the security of the VVIPs, the City Police imposed traffic restrictions at Indira Gandhi Municipal Corporation (IGMC) Stadium.Parking lots have been allotted for VVIPs, guests, school buses and the general public at different colleges and schools, PWD Grounds and on the highway. Traffic restrictions would be in force from 6 a.m. to 12 noon on January 26. Cars with A1 and B1 passes proceeding towards IGMC from PWD Grounds should come via. DCP Banglow and RTO Junction. A1n and B1 cars coming from Benz Circle should reach the stadium from D.V. Manor Hotel and P.V. Junction. Guests from Moghalrajpuram should proceed via. Madhu Chowk, Pushpa Hotel, State Bank Road, State Guest House and PWD Grounds. Vehicles proceeding from Krishnalanka should reach the venue through Fire Station, Raghavaiah Park, DCP Banglow and RTO Junction.Vehicles having A1 passes should enter the stadium through Gate 1 and park vehicles at Hand Ball Court and Bishop Hazaraiah School. All escort and pilot vehicles will be parked there too. Vehicles with B1 passes should enter the stadium from Gate 2, exit through Gate 3 and park vehicles in Police Parade Grounds. ‘V car pass’ holders will park vehicles on PWD Grounds or PVP Mall and reach the venue by foot from Gate 4. Buses transporting children will reach the venue by 7 a.m. Two, three and four-wheelers which do not have any passes should park at PWD Grounds or Siddhartha Public School or College and enter into the stadium from Gate 4, 5 and 6.DiversionsVehicles coming from Auto Nagar and Patamata would be diverted at Benz Circle and should proceed via. Skew Bridge, highway, Bandar Lakulu, Governorpet-2 RTC Depot, Fire Station Office and reach PNBS and One Town. Vehicles proceeding from PNBS and One Town towards Bandar Road, would be diverted at Raghavaiah Park to highway, Skew Bridge and Benz Circle. Vehicular movement will be stopped from Red Circle to RTO Junction and from Shikamani Junction to Veterinary Hospital Junction.