http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/Trafficked-boy-rescued-after-5-months/article13988357.ece

Kidnapped and sold by traffickers five months ago, a four-year-old boy was rescued by the Delhi Police on Wednesday night.The police said the boy was all set to be sold to a childless Saudi Arabian couple, but the transaction could not take place as he was unable to “adjust” with them.Deepak lives with his parents and seven-year-old sister at a night shelter in Chandni Chowk. His father works in a restaurant nearby. Deepak was playing outside in Chandni Chowk’s Fountain Chowk area on July 31 when he went missing. CCTV footage showed him in the company of a couple.According to local intelligence, the police learnt that Deepak was most probably taken to some place around Meerut or Hasanpur in Uttar Pradesh, and sold off. Police teams from Delhi camped in U.P. for several days, but in vain.“We cultivated sources there and distributed pamphlets carrying the boy’s picture and put up posters,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (North) Madhur Verma.On Wednesday, the police received a tip-off from an informers that the boy was in Moradabad. A raid was conducted and Deepak rescued. He had been named Salman by the people looking after him.Deepak’s rescue, however, blew the lid off a trafficking racket. He had been allegedly kidnapped by Nazra and Furkan, who in turn sold him off to taxi driver Mohammad Sohail for Rs.30,000.While Nazra and Sohail have been nabbed, Furkan is on the run. The duo are in three-day police custody so that their involvement in similar other cases can be ascertained.Sohail had bought Deepak with the intention of selling him to a prospective buyer — his Saudi Arabia-based relatives. Paraded before journalists on Thursday, Sohail told The Hindu that he was just planning to “gift” the boy to his brother-in-law and not “sell” him. Though the police are yet to gather details of the failed transaction, they insisted that it was set to be a “sale”.A senior officer added that they are yet to gather more information on the prospective Saudi Arabian buyers and will press criminal charges against them too.“The couple had come down to India to spend time with Deepak, but the boy did not like them and found it difficult to adjust with them. That led to the deal being called off,” said an officer involved in the probe.Meanwhile, Deepak refuses to let go of his mother ever since he has been handed over to his parents.“He is happy and has promised me that he will never go with anyone else again,” said his mother Jubeda.The boy’s father Chandu Singh said he had little hope from the police, but they kept comforting him saying they were on his son’s trail.