http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Thiruvananthapuram/Tragedy-strikes-at-Tirunelveli-again/article13989664.ece

Tragedy struck at Tirunelveli for pilgrims from the State capital, who were on their way back home from Velankanni, for the second time in barely three months. Three persons, including a five-year-old boy, from Thiruvananthapuram were among those killed in the bus accident near Valliyoor in Tirunelveli early on Friday.It was on September 29 that five persons from Vizhinjam were killed and seven others injured when the multi-utility vehicle they were travelling in overturned near Nanguneri in Tirunelveli.Those killed in Friday’s accident included Suji, the five-year-old son of Leo and Silvory of Kochuthura near Poovar, and Vinod and his wife Ancy of Kochuthope near Valiyathura. Vinod, 30, and Ancy, 27, were married on January 2 and had left for Velankanni by train, after booking their return trip by the ill-fated bus. According to reports reaching here, it was through their wedding rings that they were identified. Vinod’s body was mutilated beyond recognition.Suji’s mother Silvory, 30, has sustained serious head injuries in the accident and has been shifted to the intensive care unit of Government Medical College Hospital here.The family was on its way back from Velankanni after a pilgrimage to the church there to give as an offering the hair of Sunu, Suji’s 18-month-old sister. Leo, Sunu, and their eldest son Sudhi, survived without grievous injuries.According to relatives, Leo, who works in the Gulf, had reached home recently for a surgery to remove steel rods that were placed in his leg after an accident two years ago. The body of Suji, a UKG student of a school in Arumannoor here, was brought here around 4.30 p.m. The funeral was held soon after in the Kochuthura St. Antony’s Church in the presence of a large gathering.The bodies of Vinod and Ancy were brought to their house on Lissy Road at Kochuthope in Valiyathura late on Friday.Their funerals were held at the Fathima Matha Church at Kochuthope.Those injured in the accident, who were identified as from Thiruvananthapuram, were Arul, Sonia, Sajan Varghese, Princy Sajan, Nidhi Sajan (three), Nivin Sajan (two), and Aleyamma.AssistanceIn a statement here, Health Minister V.S. Sivakumar said Rs.10,000 each had been allocated for the funerals, while a Cabinet decision on financial assistance for the families of the deceased would be taken shortly.