http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Visakhapatnam/Trade-fair-offers-an-array-of-products/article13978794.ece

Decorative items made with Onyx stone from Pakistan, designer lamps and crystals from Turkey, garments and imitation jewellery from Thailand, the famous hand-woven Jamdani saris from Bangladesh, Italian Morono glass items from Egypt, furniture from China and Myanmar, and dry fruits from Afghanistan are up for grabs at the 10-day India International Mega Trade Fair here.“We are selling world famous items made with Onyx stone and garments. The stone items are priced at Rs.50 to Rs.3 lakh. We bring stones from mines in Quetta and make various items at our factory at Karachi,” said Shaukat Ali of Nadeem Enterprises.“Dress material, bed covers and perfumes made at our workshop named Village Culture sell like hotcake wherever we put up our stalls,” Ghansyam Maheswari from Village Culture, said.Duanbchanok Naj Hutamanda of Areeya Privilege Co. Ltd, who came on her maiden visit to open a stall of woman’s accessories and imitation jewellery, is very much impressed with the beauty of the city. “We are expecting very good response to our products,” she said exuding confidence on the quality of the products brought from her country. Gujarat Tourism and National Jute Board also opened their stalls.450 stallsThe expo, which was inaugurated at the sprawling Andhra University Engineering College Grounds by HRD Minister Ganta Srinivasa Rao on Saturday, has nearly 450 stalls. The organisers are expecting a footfall of three lakh. The event is jointly organised by Vizagapatam Chamber of Commerce and Industries and Bengal Chamber of Commerce and Industry with the support of Hindustan Shipyard Ltd, G.S. Marketing Associates and other organisations.Mr. Rao said the fair of such a large scale would provide a splendid opportunity to the Vizagites to buy a wide range of products and also to explore various business opportunities through B2B networking and partnerships.Besides host State of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Gujarat, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Tamil Nadu, and Maharashtra are participating in the fair.The expo with a large range of products segmented into various categories like handicraft, furniture, electronics, food, tourism and international products offer a good opportunity to the Vizagites to buy before Pongal. “We are also encouraging B2B and B2C (business to customer) opportunities between businesses and people of different States and participating countries,” Chairman of Bengal Chamber of Commerce and Industries Prakash Shah told The Hindu.Organisers expecta footfall of over three lakhvisitors to the exhibition