http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/entertainment/Trending-tastes/article14005072.ece

Get ready for a musico geography lesson, involving places you’d probably never heard of. Could you ever imagine that the pop music tastes of Mumbai’s youngsters are very similar to those from the Brazilian city Pouso Alegre, which is 13,700 km away? Or that tastes in Chennai are close to Ica, Peru? Or that New Delhi’s nearest is San Carlos in Venezuela?According to a BBC project conducted in association with app Shazam, all these are ‘musical twin cities’. The data, released last week, was based on surveys conducted in November 2015 in 4,900 cities across the world, trying to assess what music was searched for on cell-phones.The twin cities were identified entirely on pop and club music tastes, and based on the number of songs common in a top 10 listing from each city. The ‘twin’ was defined as “the furthest place, on a different continent, with the highest number of matches.”Thus, Mumbai and Brazil’s Pouso Alegre had five common favourites. These were ‘Hello’ by Adele, ‘Lean On’ by Major Drake (featuring MO and DJ Snake), ‘Sorry’ by Justin Bieber, ‘Adventure Of A Lifetime’ by Coldplay and ‘Hotline Bling’ by Drake.Interestingly, only two Indian songs made it to the Mumbai top 10. While ‘Baaki Baatein Peene Baad’, by Arjun Kanungo and ‘Baadshah’ topped the list, the Alka Yagnik-Arijit Singh song ‘Tum Saath Ho’ from the film ‘Tamasha’ was at number 6.Now, check this. If you key Pouso Alegre for its twin city, you realise it isn’t Mumbai, but Nampula in Mozambique, because they had six songs in common. And if you search Nampula’s twin, you are told it is Guaymas in Mexico.Confusing, maybe. But in many ways, this twin city tool is different from traditional methods like the Billboard charts, top album sellers in a region or major airplay-drivers on radio or TV.For one, it helps you understand which other cities and countries have similar tastes. Most Indian cities have their twins in South America: Pune has Tegucigalpa in Honduras, Bengaluru has Neuva San Salvador in El Salvador, Hyderabad has Cuenca in Ecuador, Ahmedabad has Huacho in Peru and Kolkata has Valparaiso in Chile.Secondly, it helps discover Indian songs popular in other parts of the world. For instance, Armaan Malik’s ‘Wajah Tum Ho’ (from Hate Story 3 ) did not figure in the Mumbai, Delhi, Chennai or Bengaluru top 10, but were hot property in Lahore and Dhaka.Shaan’s ‘Aaj Unse Milna Hai’ ( Prem Ratan Dhan Paayo ) made waves in Karachi, and Arijit Singh’s ‘Hamari Adhuri Kahani’ title track was big in Lahore.Finally, one gets to know the big pop hits across the world. Adele’s ‘Hello’, Major Lazer’s ‘Lean On’, Drake’s ‘Hotline Bling’, Bieber’s ‘Sorry’, Sam Smith’s ‘Writing’s On The Wall’, Ed Sheeran’s ‘Photograph’, ‘Locked Away’ by R City and Adam Levine, and ‘How Deep Is Your Love’ by Calvin Harris & Disciples were among the most-searched songs.Adele’s ‘Hello’ topped in New York, Paris and Rome, but was down under the Australian lists. And within India, Kanungo’s ‘Baaki Baatein Peene Baad’ and the Tamasha song ‘Tum Saath Ho’ were the biggest hits.The BBC-Shazam surveys will hopefully be updated regularly and provide more current results. For those tracking pop music, it’s definitely a different way to check the latest trends. However, a couple of months later, it will be interesting to see whether Mumbai, Pune and Chennai have the same twin cities. Maybe a few more unknown towns will crop up.(Narendra Kusnur is a freelance music writer)