http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/Trial-by-fire/article14024580.ece

Kathakali has numerous aattakathas of which only a handful of are performed regularly. Recently, Irinjalakuda, was the venue for ‘Harischandracharitham’, a rarely performed play. ‘Harischandracharitham’, penned by Pettayil Ramanpillai Asan, is meant to be staged over four days, just like ‘Nalacharitham’. However, these days, the play is abridged to a night-long performance. It was enacted by artistes of PSV Natya Sangham, Kottakkal. Even though a rarely performed one, the chemistry and wavelength among the artistes made a difference in the performance of the play.It revolves around the noble and just King Harishchandra, who gave away his kingdom, sold his family and agreed to be a slave – all to fulfil a promise he had made to sage Vishwamitra. The King of Ayodhya goes through many trials and tribulations that test his character and endurance but his unflinching honesty sees him through. The play ends with the family receiving the blessings of Brahma, Vishnu and Siva.The playwright seems to have been inspired by Unnayi Warrier’s ‘Nalacharitam’ when he wrote ‘Harischandracharitham’. The play uses Thodi during times of distress (akin to ‘Vijanebhatha’ of ‘Nalacharitham Third Day’). The happy reunion of the family at the end of the play resembles that of ‘Nalacharitham’ as well.“Many scenes have been omitted and some have been edited to fit the story into a full night’s play,” says Kottakkal Devadas who played the role of Vasishta. Kesavan Kundalayar portrayed the role of Viswamithra. Sudheer as King Harischandra, Rajumohan as Chandramathi and Haridas as Smasana Harischandra were the other major actors in the play. Kaalakandan and his assistant evoked laughter with their lokadharmi approach, although this did deviate a bit from the framework of traditional Kathakali.Vocal music was rendered by Narayanan, Madhu, Santhosh and Vinish. Percussionists included Prasad, Vijayaraghavan and Maneesh on the chenda and Ravi, Radhakrishnan and Mahesh on the maddalam.The recital was organised by K.N. Pisharody Memorial Kathakali Club.