http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Tribal-colony-on-brink-of-health-catastrophe/article14011923.ece

The nauseating smell from huge piles of toxic and biomedical waste invades the senses as one steps into the Kalliyampara tribal colony located in the foothills of the Nelliyampathy hill ranges. One has to plug one’s nose tightly whenever heavy winds blow, increasing the intensity of the stench manifold.The settlement is now on the brink of a health-related catastrophe, but authorities are least concerned about the health and well-being of about a hundred tribal families living here for generations. Truckloads of toxic and biomedical waste from Kochi and Thrissur have been reaching the environs of the colony every day for the last three years, unmindful of the residents’ protests.Respiratory ailments“Almost all families here suffer from respiratory ailments. Kidney problems, psoriasis, and diarrhoea visit households at frequent intervals to claim precious lives. Mighty private institutions are dumping waste illegally in our locality with the tacit support of the district administration and the Pollution Control Board,” alleges Lakshmi, who has been undergoing treatment for kidney and heart-related ailments for the last three months at the Government Medical College Hospital in Thrissur.It was only two days ago that colony resident Kannan died of kidney problems. The whole region blames air and water pollution caused by the indiscriminate dumping of waste as the reason for the death of this 35-year-old coolie.While Kalliyampara is caught in the vortex of the grave situation, neighbouring villages of Muthalamada, Kollangode, Perumatti, and Kozhinjampara grama panchayats also face the same predicament. Private landowners get Rs.7,000 to Rs.9,000 per acre for letting the waste being dumped on their land. The middlemen involved in the deal term the waste as decomposed manure, good for coconut and mango groves.“Our region has turned a dumping ground for all kinds of waste. The controversial Nitta Gelatin factory at Kathikudam in Thrissur is dumping industrial waste in huge quantities at Kalliyampara,” says local activist K.G. Kannadas. In Kalliyampara, a landlord had leased out 70 acres of land close to the tribal colony to dump waste.“The waste is dumped in an area close to a rivulet in Kalliyampara. The rivulet is the main source of drinking water for the local people,” says small-time farmer S. Murukarajan. Residents say the waste reaches the villages in the dead of the night to avoid confrontation with the villagers.