http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/Trip-to-Nandi-Hills-turns-fatal-as-over-speeding-kills-youth/article14019516.ece

An over-speeding car on Ballari Road led to a serial accident, killing a student, after the driver lost control and rammed his car into a into a median and two other vehicles on the opposite lane.The deceased has been identified as Suvin (20), a pre-university student of Jain College, Jayanagar, and a resident of Bellandur. Two of his classmates were with him in the car – Sameer (20), who was driving, and Fayaz (20), both residents of South Bengaluru. Sameer and Fayaz sustained injuries and are being treated at a private hospital in Yelahanka. They are said to be out of danger.The three had left the city in Sameer’s father’s vehicle to Nandi Hills in the early hours of Monday and were returning to the city when the accident occurred, at 8.35 a.m. near Hunasamarenahalli Junction on the busy Ballari Road.Suvin, who was seated on the bucket seat in the front without wearing a seat belt, suffered the most in the accident and was killed on the spot. The the entire front portion of the car was crushed into the bucket seat. He had suffered major head and abdomen crush injuries.Lakshman Gowda, Inspector of Police, Yelahanka Traffic, said that the car was speeding at over 120 kmph when the accident occurred. “We don’t know what made the driver lose control over the vehicle, but he rammed the car into the median and hit a light pole on the median. The vehicle was travelling at such a high speed that the SUV crossed over onto the opposite lane and hit two oncoming vehicles travelling towards Kempegowda International Airport (KIA),” he said.Those travelling in the vehicles in the opposite lane were lucky to escape with no injuries.Anita Reddy, social activist and Padma Shri awardee, was travelling in one of the vehicles hit during the serial accident. Though she did not suffer any injuries, she was in a state of shock due to the accident, traffic cops said.The Yelahanka Traffic police have registered a case of death due to negligence against Sameer.