http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Trouble-in-tourist-paradise/article13980732.ece

: Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC), which is still operating from Hyderabad, is failing to tap the potential in East and West Godavari districts, particularly the scenic beauty of Papikondalu.The number of tourists is coming down drastically as there is no control over the private boat operators who outnumber APTDC. According to statistics, the number of foreign tourists was around 400 in 2009-10 and in 2014-15 it has come down to 150.Papikondalu, where the river Godavari meanders between two hills, is a place where hundreds of endangered spices can be spotted all along the journey.Eighteen boats are operated between Purushothapatnam, starting village of West Godavari district, and Papikondalu. APTDC runs only two and about 50 per cent of the tickets of the APTDC boats are being sold by private operators.All the operators, who are having own boats, are the members of The Launch Operators’ Association and every year they renew their licences by paying the annual fee with Divisional Engineer, Head Works of Irrigation Department at Dowleswaram. They also take fitness certificates from the boat superintendent.“We will only renew the licence after our junior engineer certifies the fitness of the boats. We are not concerned about passenger amenities or any other issue,” said Ratnarajkumar, DE, Irrigation Head Works.On several occasions many passengers were stuck in the waters while returning from Papikondalu when the engines of the boats failed.But, revenue and police personnel hold the Irrigation Department responsible for the situation. “It is the responsibility of operators to provide life jackets, walkie-talkies as the area is out of mobile network covergae,” said Rajahmundry Urban SP S. Harikrishna.The boat operators collector Rs.700 per head from Rajahmundry and take the passengers from Pushkarala Revu near Uma Markandeya Swami temple on Godavari river bund to the Purushothapatnam boat point, which is about 35 km. “The transport vehicles are too congested and the 40-minute journey is terrifying,” said Radhe Syam, a Hare Krishna devotee from Pineland in the U.S.Most of the passengers complain about non-availability of life jackets even in APTDC boats. “There is no control over the non-stop sound system which is affecting the ears. If some one wants to enjoy the nature, it is not possible,” said Sekhar, Vasuprada from Mumbai.