http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/TRS-working-out-strategies-to-wrest-power/article13976955.ece

Even before the gong has been sounded in the form of notification for the conduct of polls to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) has been busy seeking to wrest the initiative from opposition parties.Following what seems to be a well prepared script, the TRS began by focussing on its weakness in the city that came in the form of fewer elected representatives and weaned away MLAs, MLCs and even former corporators into its fold from the opposition parties, particularly keeping the TDP in the crosshair.The TDP has already lost five MLAs — T. Srinivas Yadav, T. Krishna Reddy, M. Kishan Reddy, M. Krishna Rao and G. Sayanna — to the ruling party while speculation is making the rounds about some more following suit. With the top rung of TDP leaders baffled about the developments, its ally BJP’s members have so far remained immune to the temptations of TRS with only the names of a couple of its legislators making the rounds as possible candidates to cross over.Already in disarray after the disastrous performance in Assembly elections last year, the Congress has not closed ranks and after its MLC M.S. Prabhakar bid adieu and joined the TRS, rumour mills refuse to stop working overtime about some others. These moves apart, the ruling party is using the projects and plans of the GHMC to march ahead of the opponents in seeking to reach out to the electorate. While the key opposition — TDP, BJP and Congress — is hardly marshalling resources and moving into campaign mode, the TRS teams led by city ministers Mohd. Mahmood Ali, T. Srinivas Yadav and also IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao have been on an inauguration and foundation stone laying spree in the city.The government has already announced several measures aimed at attracting the voters and the boons promised include free housing for the poor, waiver of pending domestic power and water bills and the facility of unauthorised layout and building regularisation (LRS and BRS).A promise to improve the city road conditions has been made with the GHMC’s Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP) with an estimated budget of Rs. 1,900 crore and improving sanitation in the city by acquiring 44 lakh bins and providing two bins, one for dry waste and another for wet garbage, to each household. Mr. K.T. Rama Rao has also been participating in a series of programmes including some aimed at reaching out to the local residential welfare associations and so has been the TRS MP K. Kavita.The last couple of weeks saw the Commercial Taxes Minister T. Srinivas Yadav talking about providing one stadium in each Assembly constituency, Deputy Chief Minister Mahmood Ali accompanied by Home Minister N. Narasimha Reddy inaugurating Allabanda 10ML Water Reservoir in Goshamahal constituency and the IT Minister K.T.Rama Rao laying foundation stone for free housing units to the poor in Jangammet.