http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/TRS-campaign-in-full-swing/article14021253.ece

he ruling TRS has launched a no-holds-barred campaign in the polls to GHMC, going by the visible presence of the party leaders and cadre all over the city.The party led the campaign trail mainly because of early announcement of candidates for all the 150 wards, while the rivals struggled to keep the lists close to their chest till the last hour for withdrawal of nominations on Thursday. It was only after confirming that the exit option for their official candidates was closed on the last day, the rival parties got down to canvassing.The TRS leaders have fanned out to all parts of the city, including the 66 wards on the outskirts, where they have launched an intense door-to-door campaign. They have rounded off the areas assigned to them at least twice before the rivals stepped in. While focussing on the canvassing, the TRS has also thrown its doors open to leaders from other parties to join. The latest were former MLAs, C. Krishna Yadav (TDP) and Premsingh Rathore (BJP).Information Technology Minister K.T. Rama Rao was the face of TRS campaign as he launched his road shows and padayatra within hours after releasing the election manifesto of the party on Saturday. He was also said to have ruffled the feathers of nearly 600 aspirants who could not get tickets in 120 divisions. Not the one to warn them that the party would take disciplinary action if they did not withdraw from contest, Mr. Rao instead made the successful ticket-seekers pacify them.There was a sole incident of an aspirant named Ramana climbing a cell tower at Patel Nagar in Amberpet as an expression of resentment against denial of ticket. The TRS gave tickets on the basis of surveys and filtration of candidates twice or thrice. It reached out even to settlers, accommodating ten candidates from the section. The party sent a strong message that they were an integral part of Hyderabad and that the days of divide between people on regional basis was over with elections.A leader said it was possible that the TRS might even dent the vote bank of MIM in old city, going by the response.