http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/TRS-hoardings-dominate-in-Cantonment-area-too/article14010701.ece

If banner presence decided the outcome of GHMC polls, the ruling TRS would emerge a clear winner. Unchecked by civic administrations, the party towers the skies of not just Greater Hyderabad, but also that of the Secunderabad Cantonment which is not part of the electorate.Posters of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao beaming down on passers-by dot the Karimnagar Highway that runs through Cantonment, only to be dispersed by slums which are the usual hubs of hectic politicking before any election.Though the residents of Cantonment will not cast their vote in GHMC polls, their locales are thoroughfares for rest of the city that will exercise its franchise on February 2.Consequently, the banners can prominently be seen on all main roads; if it is a huge banner advertising the State’s two-bedroom housing scheme for the poor, just yards away from Karkhana police station, an even bigger hoarding stands next to the Cantonment’s Balamrai Pump House.‘Poll code not applicablein Cantonment’“There is no ruling from the Election Commission as the poll code does not apply in Cantonment. The advertising agencies have been told about the impending elections but they cite political pressure for promoting parties,” an official source informed.Seven of the eight ward members of the board that administers Secunderabad Cantonment are affiliated to the TRS. Secunderabad Club, RTA Trimulgherry and Trimulgherry X Roads are other prominent locations where hoardings stand. At Karkhana Mahankali Temple a pink banner standing on the road greets devotees.The prominence of advertising belies efforts of the State Election Commission and the GHMC has claimed it is making to level the playing field. GHMC Commissioner B. Janardhan Reddy claimed on Sunday that 1.5 lakh promotional materials have been pulled down from the city.When contacted to ask if any of these were pulled down in Cantonment, Mr. Reddy said he would have to check.“We get daily reports on removal of promotional material from GHMC’s circles but I have to check if any were removed from Cantonment,” he said. The State Election Commissioner V. Nagi Reddy informed that promotional material in Cantonment does not affect the election as the poll code does not apply to Cantonment. An official of SCB informed that the board would go about removing the hoardings in the coming days.Though Cantonment residents will not cast their vote in GHMC polls, their locales are thoroughfares for rest of the city