http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/TRS-corporators-indulge-in-verbal-duel/article13995873.ece

Two women corporators belonging to the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi indulged in a verbal feud at the general body meeting of the Municipal Corporation in Karimnagar town on Monday.The general body meeting was chaired by Mayor S. Ravinder Singh and attended by Commissioner Krishna Bhaskar and other officials.When the meeting was discussing various issues, TRS corporator T. Prabhavathi alleged that another TRS corporator Edla Saritha was interfering in her municipal division works, thus embarrassing her. When Saritha tried to convince her stating that she is not interfering in the development works, Ms. Prabhavathi went furious and thus ensued a verbal feud with Saritha. At one stage, Prabhavathi lost her cool and took out her chappal and threatened to beat Saritha. Later, all other corporators pacified both of them.Later, the meeting decided to take disciplinary action against Ms. Prabhavathi as per municipal rules by suspending her for one general body meeting.Pandemonium prevailed in the meeting when the municipal corporators protested over giving a JCB machine for the demolition of a temple to the Revenue officials on the premises of Collectorate in Karimnagar recently. They said that municipal machinery should not be given to any other person without the consent of the general body.When all the corporators demanded stern action against the officials involved in giving the JCB vehicle to Revenue officials, the Mayor assured to take action against the Assistant City Planner Ravider, EE Mohan Reddy and the driver Manjit Singh.The meeting discussed at length the sanitation works in the municipality. Expressing concern over the shortage of the sanitary workers, the corporators demanded allocation of more personnel to take up proper sanitation daily in the town. They also preferred setting up of bio-metric attendance system of sanitary workers in each municipal division.