http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/TRS-leaders-want-KCR-to-take-a-call-on-nominated-posts/article14006856.ece

It is nearly two years since the TRS came to power and many of its functionaries are waiting patiently for Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to take a decision on nominated posts.On several occasions, Mr. Rao said that those who took active part in the Telanagana movement will be honoured suitably with nominated posts.However, the process is taking a long time than the aspirants expected it to be.Mr. Rao and the party machinery are busy dealing with a series of elections, and now the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections are sure to further delay the process.A senior party leader said anybody getting a nominated post would be there for just one term, and even before the three-year term expires, the government and party would be getting into the election mode in the last year. “Had a decision been taken one year ago, many would have got a chance with two terms in office,” he opined.Scores of party leaders and those who failed to get Assembly and Parliament tickets are desperately waiting for Mr. Rao to fill the posts. There are many leaders than the posts available, which perhaps is also one of the reasons for the delay. The party took the help of every section of the society during over a decade-long Telangana movement and every section hopes to benefit from the fruits now.Contestants who lost elections like Peddi Sudarshan Reddy, aspirants like M. Yadava Reddy of Telangana Graduates Association (TGA) and district president T. Ravinder Rao, who could not get the tickets, and many who are associated with various organisations, are eagerly waiting for their share of power.The leaders of Telangana Vidyavanthula Vedika, Telangana Graduates Association, KU Students JAC, TNGOs, and JACs of various other departments are staking their claim to the posts.The KU student bodies came out openly urging the Chief Minister to consider nominating one or two persons for the posts from the university as was done in case of Osmania University.“Three students from Osmania University got political opportunities but not a single one from the Kakatiya University,” lamented a student JAC leader.A senior activist expressed his apprehension that nominated posts may be put off as long as possible as it would be difficult to please all the aspirants.“The Congress party did not fill the posts at all despite securing power for two terms. But we hope that the present government may give the nominated posts as a mark of thanks to important leaders who took part in Telangana agitation,” he said.The TRS leaders Acha Vidyasagar, Nannapaneni Narender, Bollam Sampath Kumar, Nagurla Venkateswarlu, Md Nayeemuddin, Akula Lalitha Yadav and many more are aspiring for posts.