http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/TS-pitches-for-MMTS-link-to-Yadadri/article14015215.ece

ess than a month after the Telangana Government did a preliminary study of providing a railway link to the fast developing pilgrim town of Yadadri, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao was quick to dash off a letter to Railway Minister Suresh Prabhu to include extension of MMTS phase two services from Ghatkesar to Raigir in this year’s railway budget itself.Raigir is just three kilometres away from the temple town (60 km from the capital) where the government is currently implementing a master plan investing hugely to make it into a mega pilgrimage centre. About 2,000 acres of land has already been acquired for developing the hill shrine of Narasimha Swamy on lines of Tirupati with necessary amenities to the devotees.Mr. Rao, in his communication addressed to Mr. Prabhu, affirmed that the government is ready to pick up the extra tab for laying an extra railway line from Ghatkesar to Raigir, a distance of 32 km, estimated to cost up to Rs.330 crore on the cost sharing basis of two-thirds by the State and one-third by the Railway Ministry. Similar funding formula is being adopted for phase two of the MMTS project under construction and estimated to cost more than Rs.800 crore connecting suburbs to the city and among the key stretches is from Secunderabad station to Ghatkesar of 21 km. Pointing out towards the convenience of having the MMTS link, Mr. Rao said that Yadadri had the railway line passing nearby with the halt station Raigir on the Secunderabad-Kazipet section and if the MMTS phase two works are extended up to the station with the attended signalling works, the station can be renamed as ‘Yadadri’ station. Such augmentation of an additional line will also be beneficial to the Railways as it can run more passenger and goods trains on the crucial Secunderabad-Kazipet and Secunderabad-New Delhi corridor. “It will take just 45 minutes to reach Raigir station if MMTS phase two is extended. The station can be developed to receive local trains and also have space for parking of feeder buses to and fro to the temple shrine. There is sufficient land around the station and acquiring five acres on either side will do. Local trains can be run from Serilingampally and Kacheguda too depending on railway authorities feasibility,” explained senior Government officials involved in the planning the rail link.