http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/TS-bans-Chinese-manja-a-tad-late/article14000713.ece

he State government on Wednesday imposed complete ban on procuring, stocking, selling and use of nylon thread, commonly known as Chinese dor (also referred to as Chinese manja), used to fly kites during Sankranti festival. The ban is also on the use of other synthetic (non-biodegradable) threads coated with glass or other harmful substances, which have the potential to cause injuries to animals, including birds, during festivals.The decision to ban Chinese dor comes after sustained efforts from animal rights activists and even officials from the Forest Department and Telangana State Biodiversity Board (TSBDB). In fact, very recently, the Chief Wildlife Warden, Telangana, and officials from TSBDB had written to the State government recommending for complete ban on the use of such threads while flying kites.While imposing the ban, the State government also acknowledged the fact that the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change, Government of India, in a letter which was addressed to all the States has informed about the threats posed to birds like vultures, kites, owls, pigeons among others.The State government has also observed that the use of such material could potentially cause adverse affects on soil, water because the nylon thread is non-biodegradable. “It’s heartening that the government has taken serious note of the issue and issued the ban. It will go a long way in definitely protecting birds, humans and environment,” says Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife), Telangana, P. K. Sharma.Meanwhile, Humane Society International (HSI), India, which has been campaigning for the ban of Chinese manja, has welcomed the move.“The ban is definitely going to make a positive difference in protecting birds. Made up of nylon and coated with glass, Chinese manja is extremely durable, sharp and easily cuts through the wings of birds, leaving most injured birds to suffer and die,” said campaign manager, HSI, C. Samyukta.Animal lovers said that since manja is often left hanging on trees, poles and rooftops after Sankranti, it continues to pose a threat to animals and even humans. “While the Government Order has come, now is the time to act tough and implement it properly,” felt Member-Secretary, Telangana State Bio-Diversity Board, Dr. C Suvarna.“While the Government Order has come, now is the time to act tough and implement it properly.C Suvarna,Member-Secretary, Telangana State Bio-Diversity Board