http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/TS-to-host-meet-on-livestock/article14023954.ece

The youngest State of the country, Telangana, will host the first ever international conference of the Indian Society of Animal Production and Management (ISAPM), a body that is 33 years old and has 1,200 members.The College of Veterinary Science affiliated to the P.V. Narasimha Rao Telangana State University of Veterinary, Animal and Fisheries Sciences (SPVNR-TSUVAFS) will host this prestigious event between January 28 and 31, as a part of the 23{+r}{+d}annual convention of the ISAPM on the concept of ‘Indigenous’.At a curtain raiser press conference on Wednesday, faculty experts and scientists of the varsity working in Rajendranagar and in Maamnoor of Warangal district, A. Sharat Chandra, K. Mahender, N. Rajanna and Ch. Harikrishna said that a road map would be chalked out at the plenary session on January 31. To be prepared with inputs from experts across the country and abroad, it would then be sent to the Central Government, the Indian Council for Agricultural Research (ICAR) and Veterinary Council of India, Dr. Mahender said.Of the 12 foreign experts from 10 countries, Donald M. Broom from the University of Cambridge and John Williams of the University of Adelaide would be the keynote speakers with their papers on the subjects of animal welfare and livestock production in different climatic zones, respectively. A highlight of the 4-day programme would be the National Quiz on Livestock for students on the last day, Dr. Rajanna said, adding that in all, 44 awards would be given away to post-graduate students, subject experts and scientists.Dr. Harikrishna, who works in Mamnoor as head of Livestock Research Station said the 10 technical/workshop sessions would be on specific subjects including animal behavious and welfare, climate effect, modern livestock farming practices, different breeds of farm animals, their reproduction, animal health, value addition and veterinary education.