http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/TS-Maharashtra-talks-to-resume-today/article13995074.ece

Telangana Irrigation Minister T. Harish Rao will hold talks with his Maharashtra counterpart Girish Mahajan at Mantralay in Mumbai on Tuesday on the barrages planned by Telangana at Tummidihatti across the Pranahita river and at Medigadda on the Godavari river.The two Ministers would also discuss the draft agreement on construction of a barrage at Chanakha-Korata across the Penganga river as part of the Lower Penganga project. Principal Secretary S.K. Joshi, and Chief Engineers B. Hariram, K. Bhagwanth Rao and N. Venkateshwarlu would also participate in the talks from the Telangana side.Tuesday’s meeting would be third between the two sides in less than a month and follow-up to the meeting held at Nagpur on December 22 and at Hyderabad on December 29 to discuss the contentious issues related to irrigation projects taken up by Telangana.A field visit to the proposed Medigadda barrage site was also taken up jointly by engineers of the two States on December 30.Official sources stated that the meeting would continue talks on the barrage at Tummidihatti across the Pranahita river in Adilabad district, on which a preliminary understanding has been reached between the two States following Telangana’s acceptance of Maharashtra’s demand to reduce the barrage height to 148 metres from 152 metres planned initially. Maharashtra has already made it clear that it would have no objections on the barrage provided there was no submergence in its territory.It was being expected that the meeting would finalise the draft of the agreement on the Chanakha-Korata barrage.Maharashtra has given its oral nod to the barrage following the talks between the two sides on November 24.Study tourOn Monday, a team of irrigation engineers from Telangana, who are on a visit to Water and Land Management Institute (WALMI) at Aurangabad in Maharashtra to study to the technical, design and construction aspects of the Kolhapur-Type (KT) weirs or bridge-cum-barrages, had day-long discussions with WALMI’s field engineers. Explaining the advantages of KT weirs to Telangana engineers, the WALMI authorities stated that there would be no silting in such barrages as the vents would be fully opened during floods, energy not required, flood would pass without obstruction and no out-flanking of banks would recharge groundwater and facilitate road-link between villages. The team would go on field visit on Tuesday.