http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/TSPSC-aspirants-worried-a-lot/article13976943.ece

Absence of authentic Telangana information on politics, geography and the struggle is a major drawback for the lakhs of aspirants preparing for the competitive exams for recruitment into the State Government.The recent notification by the Telangana State Public Service Commission (TSPSC) for the 400-odd Group-II posts has put the candidates’ preparation in top gear and the presence of thousands of aspirants in libraries, coaching centres and public parks is an indication.With the focus of the examination to be on Telangana’s history, culture, economics, geography, politics and also covering the entire gamut of the region’s agitation over the past 60 years, students fear that they would lose out on marks due to the non-availability of authentic literature.The market is flooded with books authored by historians and writers and published by private companies, and all the coaching centres are referring to them. Some senior professors of the concerned subjects are being roped in by the coaching centres.“The developments of Telangana in the last 10 years with regard to agitation are not covered by authoritative authors, and candidates expect that the TSPSC would focus on this in its first ever recruitment drive,” says a trainer at a top coaching centre in Ashok Nagar.“Most of these books are interpretative in style depending on the author’s ideology and political leaning.” The Telugu Akademi is behind schedule in providing authentic information through its books for various reasons including availability of good historians. But a senior Telugu Akademi official said the books will hit the market within a week. “Printing is being done and within a week candidates can expect them in the market,” he said.The Akademi has prepared a 700-page book on Telangana History and Culture in Telugu and a 360-page book on Social Structures and Policies in English. Both are in the printing stage. Services of senior professors like Adapa Satyanarayana of OU and Ramakrishna Reddy of BRAOU have been used for preparing these books. Another book on Telangana Geography will be sent for printing this week. Students anxiety about Telangana literature is justified as the TSPSC itself had repeatedly highlighted its dominance in the competitive exams.In fact, a committee constituted by the TSPSC itself suggested that various phases of separate statehood movement and cultural aspects like festivals and traditions of Telangana were important thus sending a strong signal to candidates that Telangana literature will make or mar their chances. The lack of authoritative material has only heightened their anxiety.