http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/TTD-to-develop-Upamaka-temple/article14026495.ece

The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) management is on a mission to develop the Lord Venkateswara temple at Upamaka in Visakhapatnam district.In the first phase of the project, several pilgrim-oriented activities like augmentation of drinking water supply, construction of additional toilets and a Kalyana Vedika (a platform for the conduct of Kalyanotsavams) will be taken up.The hill shrine, which is located some 77 km away from Visakhapatnam, falls under 6A Category of the AP Endowments Act. The administration of the temple was handed over to the TTD last year.Several lakhs of pilgrims, particularly from the neighbouring districts of Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and the southern districts of Odisha, visit the temple, and it registers an annual income of Rs. 30 lakh to Rs. 35 lakh.Speaking to The Hindu , TTD Deputy Executive Officer (local temples) Ms. Chenchu Lakshmi said a high-level team of officials headed by TTD Joint Executive Officer Pola Bhaskar had visited the village recently, and that they had seen huge potentiality of developing it into a spiritual and tourist destination, given its proximity to the national highway.“It is hardly two months since we took over the administration of the temple, and we could successfully conduct the month-long Dhanurmasam festival, Theppotsavam and the celebrated ‘Giri Pradakshina’. ‘Annadanam’ is conducted every Saturday, and the number of devotees fed under the scheme has gone up exponentially,” she added.When contacted, Vijayawada-based TTD Executive Engineer D. Nageswara Rao said estimates to the tune of more than Rs. 1 crore had already been submitted to the management. “Once the necessary sanctions are obtained, development works are sure to gain pace. Basically, the focus is on arresting leakages in the inner portals of the shrine. Besides, painting, restoration of Addala Mahal and Kalyanamandapam and construction of a strong room for preserving ornaments will be taken up,” he said.Meanwhile, efforts are on to complete repair works on the wooden Ratham to make it available for the annual Ekadasi Utsavalu in March. The management, on its part, is determined to complete all works ahead of the annual Navarathri Brahmotsavams.Once the necessary sanctions are obtained, development orks are sure to gain pace. Basically, the focus is on arresting leakages in the inner portals of the shrine.D. Nageswara Rao,TTD Executive Engineer