http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/TTD-to-go-whole-hog-on-Ayurvedic-institutions/article14001043.ece

The Sri Venkateswara Ayurvedic Medical Institutions (SVAMI), managed by the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), is all set to regain its lost glory.SVAMI, a conglomeration of Sri Venkateswara Ayurvedic college, Sri Venkateswara Ayurvedic Hospital and Srinivasa Ayurveda Pharmacy, once the pride of the TTD, had, incidentally, been neglected in recent years.The Sri Venkateswara Ayurvedic college is situated in the sprawling premises of SVIMS campus and is equipped with a hospital and hostel, besides a pharmacy centre for medicinal plants. It offers courses such as Bachelor of Ayurvedic Medicine and Surgery (BAMS), Doctor of Medicine (MD) and Master of Surgery (MS).The Ayurvedic hospital, which is affiliated to the college, is one of its kind in the State with 210 beds. Treatment is offered free of cost here.For the record, more than 1.19 lakh patients were treated in OP alone last year.With the objective of developing the college into an advanced centre of learning in ancient Ayurvedic medicine, the TTD set up the Srinivasa Ayurveda Pharmacy where medicinal plants are grown in 13 acres at Narasingapuram near Tirupati.Medicines supplied free of costMedicines worth Rs. 80 lakh are prepared every year at the pharmacy, and they are distributed free of cost at the hospital as well as auxiliary clinics at Tirumala and Srinivasam complex. In addition, medicines are supplied to the needy during camps organised in various parts of the country. The last such camp was held during the Godavari Pushkaralu.Speaking to The Hindu , TTD Executive Officer Dr. D. Sambasiva Rao said the college would be developed into a model institution.He also stressed the need for improving facilities at the Ayurvedic Hospital. Dr. Rao said the TTD had been spending Rs. 10 crore a year on the institution.New method“Integrating Ayurveda with Allopathy will definitely enable the institution to offer better services to patients. Vacancies in the pedagogy wing will soon be filled through outsourcing,” he added.