http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Turning-a-new-leaf/article13997442.ece

With the Chinese economy galloping, it urgently requires foreign students, particularly in Information Technology and other branches of engineering who can be part of the workforce. Bearing this in mind, China, the guest of honour country at the ongoing World Book Fair in the Capital, has brought a wide range of books on higher education written by scholars and academics like leading economist Justin Yifu Lin. Universities have sent their representatives in an attempt to woo Indian students to advanced courses like IT, engineering and medicine in China. The Chinese exhibitors are conversant in English and those who are not at home in the Queen’s language have interpreters to translate for them.Sharing his experience with Indian readers, Joshua. Z, project manager of Beijing Language and Culture University Press (BLCU), says students are turning up at the Chinese pavilion at Hall No. 7 as they are seeking livelihood opportunities in China. “Professors from the Jawaharlal Nehru University and the Delhi University have indicated that the number of Indian students learning Chinese is booming. Two years ago, the New Orient Language Training Centre had a mere 20 students learning Mandarin but now it has 120 students in Mumbai,” he informs.Tapping bright Indian studentsis the target for Chinese exhibitors. “The idea is to make Indian students visiting the Fair realise that learning Mandarin can ensure them a job in China. In cities like Shanghai, Guangzhou there is a growing demand for Indians skilled in technological know-how, business knowledge. Soon we will be investing heavily in Indian cities so we require more and more people familiar with our language. The fact that students with technical knowledge know Chinese will be an added advantage for our companies. Keeping this in mind, we have brought books to master Chinese,” says Joshua.So far, he informs that 60 copyrights of Hanyu Shuiping Kaoshi – international standardised exam testing and rating Chinese language proficiency – have been signed. “Designed by BLCU it is for those who want to apply for scholarship and find jobs in China. It assesses non-natives’ ability to use the language in their personal and professional lives. One Indian publisher has signed copyrights for 53 titles in English. We are also getting these learners guides translated into Hindi and Tamil,” he informs.According to Joshua, since his is the first university to teach Chinese to foreign students it has wealth of experience which it would like to share with Indian readers. “We have books in which Chinese words have been translated into Hindi.”The growing closeness between the two nations is on show as there are Chinese books on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, J. Krishnamurti’s authored books like “The Flight of the Eagle”, “The Mirror of Relationship: Love, Sex and Chastity”, Sadhguru’s “Three Truths of Well Being: Body, Mind and Energy for Joyful Living” and Hindu scriptures like “Bhagvad Gita” demonstrate that Chinese are reading about India.On the subjects in demand, Joshua says Yoga, Indian cuisine and Hinduism have been selected as subjects for copyright rights. “Negotiation with Indian publishers is on.”Prophesising the future, he says the number of people learning Chinese would be increasing globally.“We see a lot of potential as our teaching material is designed for higher education. And we have come to know that the Indian government would be selecting Chinese as a subject in schools.”He says Indian people are generally curious to read books on Mao Zedong, Tu Youyou, the Nobel Prize winner in physiology.Na Xie, Peking University Press Director International Department, says, “Indian readers are evincing interest in books on economy. They want to read ‘Demystifying the Chinese Economy’ authored by Justin Yifu Lin, former vice president of World Bank and professor at Peking University.It is generating interest among Indian academics as well as students. His book has been translated into English by the Cambridge University Press and is also translated into Korean, Serbian, Arabic. Now we would like it to be read by Indian readers.”