http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Kochi/Turn-it-down-please/article14001384.ece

To keep a tab on the worsening levels of noise pollution in Kochi caused by vehicles, construction works, commercial and industrial activity, the Central Road Research Institute (CRRI) is engaged in a Rs.50-lakh noise mapping project funded by Kerala State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB), in Thiruvananthapuram. “A report on this is awaited, following which we will suggest mitigation measures. A similar initiative will be done in Kochi with the institute’s help once metro-rail’s constructions works are over,” said K. Sajivan, the Board’s chairman.He cited incessant honking by vehicles as a major reason for the increase in noise levels across Kerala. “The upper limit for noise caused by vehicles is 75 decibels. This often goes up to 95 decibels or more due to incessant, unnecessary honking and spurt in number of vehicles,” he said.While lauding campaigns like ‘Horn Not OK Please’ (HNOP) launched by the Kochi chapter of Young Indians (Yi), the youth wing of Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Mr. Sajivan said that this will go a long way in creating awareness on the issue. The Board can partly fund such campaigns since people need to know how noise pollution can lead to loss of hearing and increase in stress levels, affecting quality of life, he added.Reacting to Yi’s long-pending suggestion to install decibel meters at busy junctions, he said that this would help gather statistical data on the issue. The Mumbai High Court had recently directed Maharashtra Government to procure 1,843 noise decibel meters within three months, while hearing a public interest litigation since the state’s 1,338 police stations in urban areas had just 494 meters.Mr. Sajivan said that the government and district administration are duty bound to maintain ambient noise within safe levels. Though the Board held discussions with police, Motor Vehicles Department and local bodies to clamp down on noise pollution by automobiles, there was little follow up action. “Apart from stepping up awareness, sign boards discouraging honking must be installed in urban areas. Warning and penalty measures as part of rule enforcement can come next,” he said.