http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/sport/Tussle-for-Cooch-Behar-supremacy/article14005418.ece

A few minutes before Mumbai and Uttar Pradesh’s customary meeting with match officials at the Sachin Tendulkar Gymkhana at Kandivali, the lanky UP skipper Shivam Chaudhary paused for fleeting moments when asked to describe the appearance of the surface prepared for the Cooch Behar Trophy under-19 semifinal against Baroda at the Motibagh ground.Obviously not wanting to make a rash statement, he looked down towards the rough area just outside the officials’ room and said “It was full of cracks” before rushing to meet the two umpires and match referee, along with team manager Kapil Pandey.The host took a chance by preparing a turner for the benefit of its spinners; but the visitor’s spinners proved equally wily as they proceeded to outsmart the home team to enter the final. And, the UP skipper played his part with a five-wicket haul in the first innings, bowling right-arm off-break and hitting 49 while chasing 142 in the second.On the eve of the final, the UP team went through the routines, side by side with Mumbai, at a venue named after a batting legend.Both will look forward to bright days on the field from Tuesday and hope to lift the coveted trophy that represents supremacy in under-19 cricket. Mumbai has reached the final after run-ins against eight other teams and UP has arrived here after getting the better of seven.In the knockouts, both teams had to take the field without their star players like Armaan Jaffer, who was instrumental in enabling Mumbai to come through the qualifying rounds with a phenomenal run with the bat. Likewise, UP was without left-arm fast bowler Shubham Mavi and leg-spinner Zeeshan Ansari. Jaffer, Mavi and Ansari have been selected in the India U-19 team for the ICC Under-19 World Cup. But the Chaudhary-led UP side has some terrific players hailing from Meerut, Kanpur, Saharanpur, Ghaziabad, Noida and Jhansi. Surprisingly, there are none from Lucknow.Team strengthThe Mumbai team draws much of its strength from the Rizvi institution; half of the 16-member team are from Rizvi College. But skipper Shams Mulani, who learned his cricket at Don Bosco, Matunga is currently studying at Jhunjhunwala College. Sairaj Patil, who made a remarkable 183 not out in the semifinal against Gujarat at Valsad, batting at No. 8, is from Boisar in Palghar district and is a Civil Engineering student. Hardik Tamore is also from Boisar. The rest of the team members have been raised in the city. Adeeb Usmani, who passed Class 10 privately, has taken a break; he wants to make a career in the game.The teams: Mumbai: Shams Mulani (capt), Sairaj Patil, Ashay Sardesai, Hardik Tamore, Anish Chaudhary, Prithivi Shaw, Minad Manjrekar, Rudra Dande, Onkar Jadhav, Khizar Dafedar, Aditya Shinde, Adeep Usmani, Omprakash Jaiswal, Shubham Pandey, Sidak Singh, Danish Rainee.Uttar Pradesh: Shivam Chaudhary (capt), Lakhan Rawat, Madhav Kaushik, Rinku Singh, Priyam Garg, Shanu Saini, Sandeep Tomar, Upendra Yadav, Trishal Trivedi, Vineet Panwar, Shivam Mavi, Kartikey Kushwaha, Mukesh Kumar, Harsh Vardhan, Narayan Kumar, Gaurav Sirohi, Yashyashvi Rishab.