http://www.thehindu.com/features/kids/Two-faced-monster/article13986426.ece

“Oh, no!” cried Rana the frog detective as he looked at an email to Hopper, Hopper and Hopper Detective Agency.“What’s the matter Rana?” asked Rock, his rockhopper penguin partner at the agency.“It’s a mail from those three silly rhesus macaques of the Sunderbans. They want us to solve a curious case of two-faced monsters that roam the mangrove forests at the delta.”Let-it-be, the grasshopper partner, was not impressed. “Those monkeys are up to no good. I am sure it’s a prank of sorts. Let’s just ignore them,” he said.Rock was adamant that they should solve the mystery. So, the three detectives were soon back at the world’s largest river delta to crack another mystery.It was a glorious sunny morning in the Sunderbans. Asadu, Achchu and Pichchu were on top of the world. Trees were laden with fruits. High tides in the river channels brought in abundant fish. Birds had built their nests and laid eggs in them. So, what more could three hungry monkeys ask for? From a top branch of a sundari tree where they were feeding, Asadu spotted the detectives, first. With a whoop, the three leaped down the tree and raced across the mudflats to greet them.After a nod of greeting, Rana went straight to the point. “Tell us about two-faced monsters that you saw in the forests here.”Asadu closed his eyes and shuddered. “It’s a terrible looking creature. It walks on two legs and generally, comes out at dawn from wherever he lives, to prowl the jungles.”Achchu added more ‘gory’ facts about the creature. “You know what? These creatures create a racket by beating large drums, shouting and waving sticks in the air.” Pichchu rolled his eyes, spat out a mango seed and spoke in a hushed voice, “The worst thing about this creature is that it has two faces — one looking forward and the other backward. Who can tell if it is coming or going?”Confusion continuesThe three detectives could not believe this ludicrous tale. They decided to check it out for themselves early the next morning. Sure enough, just as the monkeys had said, a big group of two-legged, two-faced drumbeating creatures came from villages and made their way through the forests.Asadu was excited. “Come on, let’s follow them!”Curious as they were, the detectives agreed. Quietly, the six followed the strange-looking creatures. Little did they suspect that someone was following them quite stealthily. A sudden roar near Asadu’s back made them all jump out of their skins. Turning back, he saw a majestic Royal Bengal tiger breathing down their necks.“Hello Hoppers, nice to see you again. What brings you here?”The tiger growled with laughter when he heard about the ‘mystery’ they had come to solve.“That’s no mystery. Those creatures are foolish human beings wearing face masks on the back of their heads. It is supposed to confuse me because I always attack them from the back but they can’t trick an old pro like me.”His eyes fell on the three trembling monkeys. “Today, I think I will have three monkeys for breakfast.”He licked his lips and made a leap but the three monkeys were too quick for him. In a blink of an eye, they had disappeared.Rana was furious. “Rock, Let-it-be, we will never ever take up cases reported by these harebrained monkeys.”