http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/Two-wheels-ditched-for-Metro/article14004220.ece

: Public transport, particularly the Delhi Metro, gained popularity and two-wheelers lost ground during the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government’s vehicle-rationing experiment, a report released on Saturday found.A survey of about 4,000 Delhiites by research agency CVoter found that as the 15-day odd-even period went on, the acceptability of the policy grew and the use of public transport increased. The majority of car users (42 per cent) switched to two-wheelers in the first week of the experiment, while public transport was the second choice with 40 per cent opting for Metro and buses.As the policy went on, car users ditched the two-wheelers and took to public transport. The Metro and private auto-rickshaws were the biggest gainers in the second week, while buses ended up losing 3 per cent of car users compared to the first week.The survey found that overall “happiness” also grew in the second week of the experiment, which ended on Friday. The majority of respondents were “very happy” with the initiative, with those holding that opinion going up from 55.9 per cent in the first week to 59.9 per cent in the second. Negative opinion of the experiment saw a mixed result over the two weeks. Those “somewhat unhappy” increased from 3.9 per cent to 4.1 per cent, but those “very unhappy” fell from 15.7 per cent to 12.6 per cent from the first to second week.During the odd-even period, the use of cars fells by 30 per cent while those car-pooling went up by a whopping 387.7 per cent, indicating the success of the government’s push towards that option. Delhiites using private auto-rickshaws went up by 156.3 per cent compared to the period before odd-even, while Metro use went up by 58.4 per cent.On average, the respondents’ took 12 minutes less to commute from home to work during the odd-even period. Car and bus users reached their workplaces 13 and 14 minutes faster during the 15-day period.Meanwhile, Delhiites also expressed their opinion about the odd-even experiment online. The online petition platform Change.org saw 17,857 people campaigning on the issue.“There have been an equal number of petitions started on Change.org for and against the scheme, with nine petitions each. Public support for the extension of the scheme has been 4.5 times more than those against the scheme,” said a statement by Change.org.