http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/Two-killed-in-factory-fire/article13987067.ece

Two workers were charred to death and their co-worked grievously seriously injured when a fire broke out at a helmet-manufacturing unit in East Delhi’s Jwala Nagar on Thursday evening.Deceased 20-year-old Niraj and 24-year-old Deepak probably got trapped inside and fell unconscious due to the smoke before they died, said Delhi Fire Services Deputy Director Atul Garg.“It was a small factory and the blaze was relatively smaller than the ones we often come across in such factories. However, the victims unfortunately got trapped inside and died,” Mr. Garg added.Their co-worker Jitu, said to have sustained nearly 90 per cent burns, is in a critical condition and undergoing treatment at GTB Hospital. All victims lived in rented accommodations close to the accident site.The incident was reported around 4.15 p.m. on Thursday. Nearly one dozen men were working in the factory at the time of the incident and all but these three managed to escape in the nick of time.Assuming this was a minor blaze, two fire tenders were rushed to the spot. Though more fire tenders were subsequently sent, the flames were doused in about 30 minutes.Fire officers said a large quantity of foam stored in the factory for manufacture of helmets led to the quick spread of fire. By the time firefighters made it inside the factory, the three victims were already unconscious. Eyewitnesses said the deceased were charred beyond recognition.A short-circuit is suspected to have led to the blaze, but investigations are on.Shahdara District Magistrate Abhishek Singh and some political leaders visited the accident site and the victims’ families.Mr. Singh said an enquiry has been ordered to check if the factory was operating illegally.“Similar other factories running in the area will also be scanned and surveyed on Friday,” said the officer.Meanwhile, another blaze was reported from West Delhi’s Naraina an hour before this fatal fire. Said to be of a much greater magnitude, around 25 fire tenders were pressed into service to douse the blaze that engulfed a heater-manufacturing unit.A short-circuit is suspected to have led to the blaze that was reported on Thursday