http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/Two-newly-created-urban-bodies-in-Odisha-gearing-up-for-polls/article13986192.ece

Electioneering is picking up at Baliguda in Kandhamal district and Champua of Keonjhar district, two newly-created Urban Local Bodies (ULB) of Odisha, which will go to polls on January 19.As elections for these two new Notified Area Councils (NAC) are to be held for the first time, it has increased interest of voters as well as political parties. Baliguda, although a revenue sub-division headquarter of Kandhamal district, had become a NAC on December 22, 2014. Both Baliguda and Champua ULBs have 13 wards. Forty-two candidates are in the fray at Baliguda after scrutiny of nomination papers on January 4, while at Champua total number of candidates found eligible to contest the polls is 45. Three nomination papers were cancelled during scrutiny at Champua.BJD, BJP and Congress are contesting in all the 13 wards of Baliguda.Apart from them, there are three independent candidates.At Champua, the BJD and the BJP have fielded candidates in all the 13 wards, while the Congress is contesting in 12. Last date for withdrawal of nomination papers for elections of these two new ULBs is January 7. Voting date is January 19 and results would be declared on January 21.All the three major political parties want to show their strength in these NAC elections.Since 1995, the Congress has not won from the Baliguda Assembly seat. The BJP candidates had won Baliguda Assembly seat in 2000, 2004 and 2009. But in 2014 Assembly elections, BJD candidate Rajib Patra had managed to win the seat. While the Congress got the second position, two times BJP MLA Karendra Majhi had to be satisfied with third position. So, all the three political parties want to prove their support base in the region through first Baliguda NAC elections.At Champua, the Congress is said to be slightly weak and the fight is expected to be strong between BJD and BJP. According to political observers, the sitting independent MLA Sanatan Mahakud would play a key role in the elections for Champua NAC.Last date for withdrawal: January 7, polling on January 19, results on January 21