http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/Two-BSF-personnel-killed-in-landmine-blast-in-Odisha-district/article13990239.ece

Two Border Security Force personnel, including a deputy commandant, were killed in a landmine blast triggered by the Maoists in Kaliajhula jungle under Boipariguda police station limits of Koraput district in Odisha on Friday afternoon.The incident occurred at around 1 p.m. while a troupe of around 20 BSF personnel was returning to their base at Ramgiri after a combing operation in the region following murder of a trader named Bapi Samant at Dandabadi village in the same police station area on Thursday late night. The landmine blast targeted at the BSF jawans occurred at a distance of three to four kms from Dandabadi.The BSF personnel were travelling on bikes, said Koraput Superintendent of Police C. S. Meena. BSF Head Constable Sibasish Panda was driving the first bike, on which Deputy Commandant Sunil Kumar Behera was the pillion rider. The IED hidden under the dirt track of the hilly jungle terrain was triggered when this bike passed over it. Sibasish died at the spot, while the Deputy Commandant succumbed to his injuries later while he was being taken for medical treatment.According to the police officials, the blast was so powerful that it threw the bike high into air and a large crater was formed at the spot. No other BSF jawan was injured. Both the dead personnel were part of the 143rd BSF battalion, now deployed in Koraput district for anti-Maoist operations.Following the incident, additional security personnel were rushed to the spot.The Maoists from adjoining Chhattisgarh are suspected to be behind the blast and the murder of the civilian on the previous night. According to Deputy Superintendent of Police V. R. Rao, on Thursday night a group of around 30 armed Maoists along with their supporters had reached Dandabadi village and forcefully entered the house of Bapi Samant. He was tied and paraded around the village. Later he was shot from close range by the ultras. The Naxalites also burnt down a mini-truck of Samant and looted his shop at the village. They left behind leaflets alleging Samant was a police informer. As per eyewitnesses from their conversation, it was evident that the Maoists were not residents of Odisha but from adjoining Chhattisgarh. Following this murder, the BSF personnel had started combing operation in adjoining jungle area of Dandabadi village, and the landmine blast occurred inside Kaliajhula jungle.Following intensification of anti-Maoist operations in bordering Malkangiri district of Odisha and adjoining region of Chhattisgarh, Maoists from Chhattisgarh have started eyeing Boipariguda area as a strategic location. In December 2015, Maoists had damaged three mobile communication towers in Boipariguda police station area alleging them to be tools of anti-Maoist operations.Nuapada-Mainpur division of outlawed the CPI (Maoist) organisation which is controlled by the Chhattisgarh cadres had also given a bandh call on Friday in Nuapara, Kalahandi and Nabarangpur districts to protest against continuing anti-Maoist operations.For it security has been heightened in the region. Till afternoon no major untoward incident had been reported from these districts.