http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Two-arterial-roads-to-be-widened-in-Shivamogga-city/article13978047.ece

To ease the traffic situation in Shivamogga city, two arterial roads — Kuvempu Road and Milghatta Road — would be widened soon, said Shivamogga MLA K.B. Prasanna Kumar.It has been planned to widen Kuvempu Road from the Inspection Bungalow Circle to Shivamurthy Circle to a width of 80 feet. The project is estimated to cost Rs. 67 crore. The work will be executed by the Public Works Department, he told presspersons here on Saturday.Mr. Kumar said that Milghatta Road would be widened from Ashoka Circle to Tunga Canal stretch to a width of 80 feet. A survey on land acquisition would be undertaken. Owners who cede their land for the work would be compensated as per the existing market price. The State government has released Rs. 3 crore to compensate property owners. A meeting would be convened soon to discuss the issues with the residents there, he said.Mr. Kumar said that the work of developing interior roads in Bommanakatte, Surya Layout, Navule, Sahyadri Nagar, Kashipura, and Alkola with the funds available under the third phase of Chief Minister’s Small and Medium Towns Development Project, also known as Nagarothana project, has commenced. A sum of Rs. 10 crore has been allocated, he said.Funds sanctionedThe solid waste collected from various parts of the city is being sent to the waste treatment plant in Anupinakatte. The residents of Anupinakatte had complained that the road in their locality was in bad condition because of the movement of heavy vehicles. Responding to their problems, the government has sanctioned Rs. 1.74 crore to asphalt 1.5 km of the road that connects Anupinakatte with Siddeshwara Circle, he said.He said measures would be taken to complete the ongoing work of widening M.R.S. Circle-Tunga bridge stretch of B.H. Road in an expedited manner.Mayor of Shivamogga City Corporation Mangala Annappa, Deputy Mayor H. Palakshi, and Chairman of Shivamogga Urban Development Authority N. Ramesh were present in the press conference.Project to widen Kuvempu Road and Milghatta Road is estimated to cost Rs. 67 crore