http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Two-held-on-charge-of-impersonating-police/article14005739.ece

Two men who allegedly impersonated police officers and stole cash and other valuables from people through shakedowns were arrested by a special investigation team (SIT) of the Kollam City Police on Tuesday from Krishnapuram in Alappuzha district.The officers of the SIT had to use force as the impersonators resisted arrest. The police in Kollam had been recently receiving many complaints about two “police officers” waylaying and looting people, especially during night, in different parts of the district. The victims reported that one of the fake officers, in uniform, posed as a sub-inspector while the other as a civil police officer, wearing only khaki pants and police boots. The arrested were identified as Sajith alias Sachu, 28, and Paul Martin, 37. Sajith was the one who posed as a sub-inspector.Sub-inspector G. Gopakumar who arrested the two said that Sajith had a photo of his in the uniform of a CRPF sub-inspector as the wall paper of his mobile phone. It was this wall paper that he flashed to his victims to prove his identity as an officer of the State police. In the wake of complaints in this connection, City Police Commissioner P. Prakash constituted the SIT, led by Assistant Police Commissioner (Special Branch) Rex Bobby George.The team largely comprised officers attached to the shadow unit of the City police.Mr. Prakash said that during interrogations the duo confessed to being involved in 25 such shakedown operations at areas coming under the jurisdiction of various police stations in Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha districts. Many of the victims were even assaulted if they happened to be alone. Mr. Rex said that four motorcycles allegedly stolen by the duo had been recovered. One of their latest operations in Kollam district was waylaying a vehicle carrying eight tourists from Thrissur to Kanyakumari in the night and taking away 12 mobile phones and Rs.15,000 from them.