http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/Two-pleas-against-odd-even/article13983065.ece

: Two fresh petitions were filed in the Delhi High Court on Tuesday challenging the odd-even rule enforced by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government for restricting the number of four-wheelers on city roads. The public interest writ petitions said the new scheme had only made “cosmetic changes” in pollution control.The petitioners, High Court Bar Association president Rajiv Khosla and city resident B. Badrinath, have sought quashing of the December 28 notification introducing the odd-even vehicle rationing on an experimental basis for 15 days.A Division Bench of the High Court, comprising Chief Justice G. Rohini and Justice Jayant Nath, will hear the two PILs along with a bunch of writ petitions on the subject on Wednesday. While some of the petitions have challenged the entire scheme, others have raised the issues such as exemption granted to women drivers and two-wheelers.Mr. Khosla's petition said the scheme, implemented without carrying out any feasibility study, was hampering the legal fraternity practising in different courts and tribunals. It said the actual pollution levels could not be measured when the Delhi government had forced holidays on schools.Mr. Khosla sought exemption of lawyers from the notification's applicability to enable them to perform their professional duties. He also raised the subject of Delhi government's “legislative incompetence” to issue the notification and fix the fine of Rs. 2,000 for violating the rule.Mr. Badrinath's petition said the scheme violated his fundamental right to equality, freedom of movement and right to practise any profession or occupation guaranteed under the Constitution. It said the public transport system was insufficient to handle the huge volume of people who would not be using their personal vehicles as per the scheme.The High Court Bar Association gave a call to lawyers to register a symbolic protest against their non-inclusion in the exempted categories by wearing a red tag while appearing in the court on Wednesday.Pleas filed in High Court state the scheme only made 'cosmetic changes' in pollution control