http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Two-halves-of-a-yellow-sun/article14013992.ece

As always, Monday arrived with the worry that this was ‘column week’. Murphy’s Law kicks in on those weeks. Everybody I know wants to meet, vent, have dinner, or celebrate birthdays; effectively compressing the little time I have for writing into wafer-thin slivers I carve out between telephone calls and copyediting jags. Then, of course, the question of what to write. My obvious choice this week was Sunny Leone’s demolition derby on TV of the smug and superior Bhupendra Chaubey, who failed spectacularly to put her down for her former porn star career. Social media, however, has since chewed up Chaubey so effectively, I decided I would reserve my comments for another day.I write instead about something that will please the hearts of my male readers: the possessive wife. Over the last few years, a friend, let’s call him Nikhil, has been borrowing my shoulder rather generously because of his ‘spouse’ problems. Nikita and he had a short and sweet romance, and then settled into the humdrum of married life. Unfortunately, Nikita has decided that one of her duties as a wife is to ensure that Nikhil brings his life to a standstill in order to play ‘husband’. This means he must cease to exist as an individual outside the marriage.I cannot begin to tell you how many men complain about this. For some bizarre reason, perfectly normal women transmogrify into preachy, pious and headmistressy wives. It’s almost as if they all attend a tutorial, just after Bollywood dance lessons for the Sangeet ceremony, where they are taught that marriage is a scary-love prison, into which they must incarcerate husbands.The most common way this is manifested is in the classic you-cannot-smoke-or-drink-or-go-out-with-friends syndrome. Now, all of us worry about the health of our loved ones, but at some point, an adult must be allowed to worry for himself. A newly-married couple once visited, and I found it ridiculous how the wife kept hiding his cigarettes; he promptly lied, went for a walk, and smoked. Nikita has decided that Nikhil must not drink, and won’t allow liquor into the house. Nikhil is not exactly a lush, but enjoys an occasional Scotch. He now lies and steps out to the pub or a friend’s home. Both women would be indignant if told they were being silly. ‘We are looking after our husband’s health,’ they will say. But the truth is, it’s impossible and unnecessary to reform or monitor the person you marry. What you can do is put an opinion out there, and let it be taken or ignored — you cannot police relationships.Nikhil talks of his wife’s jealousy of his other friendships, so that meeting an old pal, male or female, is always fraught with argument. But Nikita can’t understand why he wants to meet other friends at all. “Love,” she says, “means just us, doing everything together.” Sadly, Nikhil loves her, but loves his friends too. When a Bangkok class reunion came up, he escaped, saying he was going to Singapore on a business trip. A suffocating and possessive love that forces your spouse to lie to you is not love, it is ownership.And that’s what the marriage degenerates into: An ownership game where partners must continually prove they “belong” to the other via well-worn tropes such as ‘We don’t have interests or friendships outside marriage.’ ‘We must account for every minute of our time to the other.’ ‘We must like and do the same things.’ You can follow each rule diligently, and still hate the spouse and the marriage. Because ultimately you cannot ‘own’ people — the closer you pull them in, the farther they’ll run.Two people in a marriage continue to first be individuals. And this independent identity must always assert itself over their identity as one half of a partnership. To subsume the individual within a constrictive duality kills first the individual, and eventually, the relationship.I could not resist quoting the much-quoted Gibran: ‘Love one another, but make not a bond of love... Fill each other’s cup, but drink not from one cup.... Sing and dance together and be joyous, but let each one of you be alone.’