http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/UAS-R-Vice-Chancellor-endorses-report-on-Bt-cotton-crop-loss/article13978086.ece

Amidst criticisms by farmers’ organisations and experts of a report by a team from the University of Agricultural Sciences, Raichur (UAS-R), on Bt cotton destruction in Pink Bollworm pest attack in Raichur district, P.M. Salimath, varsity Vice-Chancellor, endorsed the report and said that it was was objective and favoured affected farmers.He was responding to queries on the issue at a press conference in Raichur on Saturday.“Upon a request by the Joint Director, Department of Agriculture, Raichur, our team visited 14 villages in Raichur district. It found 70-80 per cent destruction in nine villages and around 50 per cent destruction in the remaining five. We have submitted a report, which stated that the crop was destroyed by Pink Bollworm despite farmers having taken all precautions and followed recommended cultivation methods. The point naturally goes in favour of farmers and supports them in their claim for compensation from seed companies,” he said.A team from University of Agricultural Sciences, Dharwad, and experts from UAS-R will revisit the cotton fields shortly and bring out a comprehensive report.Mr. Salimath also said that the technology could not be rejected without proper investigation and research.“Obsolete technologies need new touch to remain relevant. Farmers have reaped rich profits from Bt cotton all these years. Now Pink Bollworm has posed a new challenge. We need to develop the Bt technology to address the newly cropped up issues of rejecting the technology itself once and for all,” he said.He denied the allegations that university scientists joined hands with Bt cotton seed companies.“No scientist or university can join hands with corporate companies to mislead and betray poor farmers. All our efforts are farmer-centric and development-driven,” he said.Mr. Salimath said that he had proposed to form a coordination committee of all agricultural and horticultural universities in the State which could address the common agrarian issues with a proper coordination.“Agriculture universities need to work with proper coordination. The crops and cropping patterns in North Karnataka, including Hyderabad Karnataka, are similar and the issues are also similar,” he added.