http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Thiruvananthapuram/UDF-to-hold-consultations-on-manifesto/article14000892.ece

The United Democratic Front (UDF) has decided to continue with the current election manifesto with its emphasis on development and care, but would expand it by holding all-round discussions, led by Chief Minister Oommen Chandy.Mr. Chandy, who is UDF chairman, will hold a series of discussions with people belonging to various walks of life, experts in various fields, representatives of various organisations, and social and cultural personalities beginning January 28. The UDF subcommittee headed by KPCC spokesperson M.M. Hassan has prepared a detailed programme for refining the UDF election manifesto to reflect the State’s current thinking.The subcommittee members would also hold separate discussions on its own prior to codifying all the suggestions into an election manifesto. Addressing a press conference here, UDF convener P.P. Thankachan and Mr. Hassan said the election manifesto will highlight the various ongoing projects, one which are to be launched and the future proposals. There would be no basic change from the earlier manifestos prepared for the previous assembly elections and the Lok Sabha elections in2014. “The emphasis will continue to be on development and care,” they said.Single-day programmeIn order to ensure public participation, a single-day programme will be held in all panchayats on any one day between February 10 and 15 to accept suggestions to be included in the manifesto. A suggestion box will be kept at vantage points in each of the panchayats. This would be in addition to the development seminar to be held in each of the 140 Assembly constituencies on February 20 and 21. The local legislators and parliamentarians would give leadership to these development seminars.Mr. Thankachan said the UDF partners have been asked to submit their opinions by February 20. Party workers and members of the general public can submit their suggestions in writing up to February 20. The suggestions can be uploaded onwww.kpcc.org.in, the PCC’s official website or mailed tokpccmanifesto@gmail.com