http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/Ultras-hid-among-shrubs-in-airbase-since-January-1/article13984358.ece

The six terrorists who were eliminated during the Pathankot operation, which lasted around 80 hours, are said to have taken refuge among the shrubs in the air force base since the early hours of January 1, an analysis of the cell phone tower records of the snatched mobile phones reveal, a top government official told The Hindu.Investigators have pieced together the circumstances leading to the attack and found at least three mobile phones, which the terrorists snatched from the former Gurdaspur Superintendent of Police, Salwinder Singh, and his friend Rajesh Verma remained active at the airbase from early morning till the afternoon of January 1.Only one phone usedWhile the terrorists used only one phone, that of Mr. Verma, to communicate with their handlers in Pakistan, the other two belonging to Mr. Singh were not used. The location of all the three phones was from the same phone tower close to the airbase. By afternoon, the three phones were switched off. Officials presume the terrorists would not have got an opportunity to charge the batteries. The terrorists opened the attack only around 3.30 a.m. on January 2 when they killed five unarmed Defence Security Corps personnel in their barracks.Preliminary investigations reveal the terrorists were not carrying any phone as no calls were made from a Pakistan number to another Pakistan number from the airbase, the official said. The four calls to Pakistan, intercepted by the agencies, were made from the airbase with Mr. Verma’s phone.“Till the time the alert was sounded, and NSG commandos were rushed on the night of January 1, the attackers were already there at the airbase. We analysed the cell phone location and the calls only on January 2 when the attack had begun. The Punjab Police informed us only by afternoon,” said the official.Call records point to MultanThe intercepted calls reveal that the terrorists who attacked the airbase in Pathankot spoke in Multani dialect, commonly used in the districts of Multan, Lodhran and Bahawalpur in southern Punjab of Pakistan.“This type of Punjabi is not spoken in India. The Multani dialect is common in south Punjab, Pakistan. This is a crucial pointer to the attackers being Pakistanis,” a senior official told The Hindu.Three types of weapon on terroristsAn initial assessment has revealed that the terrorists who were neutralised at the airbase had at least three types of weapons: AK-47 rifles, mortars and primed grenades.Only Garud commando died fighting the terroristsA senior government official said that only the Garud commando died in the combat, the five DSC personnel did not get time to defend themselves as they were caught unaware.The NSG commando reportedly died while handling the dead body of one of the terrorists and he touched the ‘primed grenade’ with bare hands. An official said the NSG has telescopic manipulator or water jet disruptor, which could have been used to defuse the grenade.