http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/kozhikode/Uncertainty-over-flyover-projects/article14010044.ece

The proposal to build two mega projects — flyovers at Ramanattukara and Thondayad on the Kozhikode Bypass — remains uncertain as the Finance Department has put them on hold citing severe financial crunch.The projects were envisaged under the District Flagship Infrastructure Project (DFIP), a major initiative of the State government announced by the former Finance Minister K.M. Mani in the budget. In fact, these two projects in the city were part of the 21 infrastructure projects announced under the DFIP, meant to provide a stimulus to infrastructure projects in all the districts in the State.Official sources said the projects had been conceived to decongest the bottleneck at Ramanattukara and Thondayad junctions on the Kozhikode Bypass. The opening of the entire 28.14-km stretch from Vengalam to Idumuzhikkal this week is likely to further choke the arterial route.The National Highway Division of the Public Works Department (PWD) had already secured administrative sanction for the project. It had also submitted a detailed report for technical sanction. Previously, it was decided that a special purpose vehicle, Kerala Road Fund Board (KRFB), would implement the projects.An estimate of Rs. 219 core had been worked out for the two flyovers. The estimate prepared for the 420-metre flyover at Ramanattukara was Rs. 119 crore and for the 480-metre flyover at Thondayad, Rs. 97 crore.Three bridges, including service roads, were proposed to be built at Neelithodu, near Ramanattukara.Sources said the objection raised by the Finance Department had been taken up with the Chief Minister, who had promised to look into the issue.The PWD can go ahead with the tendering process only if the objection is lifted. The blockade has come at a time when the department was awaiting technical sanction for the project.For quite some time now, elected representatives have been demanding the construction flyovers at the busy Ramanattukara, Thondayad and Malaparamba junctions on the Kozhikode Bypass. The construction of four flyovers, including at Eranhipalam, had been conceived in connection with the proposal to widen the Kozhikode Bypass and the Mananchira-Vellimadukunnu stretch of the National Highway.