http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/Under-the-sway-of-rhythm/article13986376.ece

Having received intensive training in Kathakali from the doyen Chandu Panikar during his early days in Kalakshetra, natya acharya V.P. Dhananjayan is in the process of re-establishing a connect with the art form after decades of making his mark in Bharatanatyam. Co-presenting the lec-dem ‘Kathakali Mela Padam – a unique musical ensemble’ with Dhananjayan, was another senior artist, Sadanam Harikumar, well-known to Kathakali connoisseurs.Dhananjayan explained that in the Kerala instrumental tradition, ‘melam’ refers to vadyams such as chenda, maddalam, idakka, thimila, ilathalam, chengila and kombu, played on auspicious occasions and at temple festivals. ‘Padam’ in Carnatic music terminology refers to a slow-paced rendition of a specific compositional genre.Mela padam is the musical interlude that immediately succeeds the end of a vibrant nritta prelude called purappadu. After the actors exit the stage, mela padam is performed by the ensemble of vocalists, percussionists and instrumentalists who are an integral part of a Kathakali performance. The traditional mela padam, with percussive accompaniment, begins with a vocal rendition of Jayadeva’s ashtapadi ‘Manjuthara’ set in Thodi raga, Champa tala (10 matras, 8-kalai chowkam, total 80 sub units), equivalent to Jhampa tala, but differently executed. It showcases the singers’ ability. This is the first segment.The second segment is a percussion solo on chenda and maddalam (drums) backed by chengila (gong) and ilathalam (cymbals), the seamless rhythmic interlude highlighting the prowess of the percussionists. Here, the beats would accelerate in an exhilarating stage by stage count-down to 40, 20, 10 and 5. This segment is comparable to the tani avartanam in a kutcheri.Harikumar’s multi-faceted expertise as a Kathakali asan and actor, Kathakali and Carnatic vocalist, chenda artist, lyricist, playwright, accredited visual artist and sculptor, complements his extensive research. In a slight deviation from the norm, his innovative approach towards mela padam led him to tune the ashtapadi ‘Mamiyam Chalitha’ as a ragamalika set to Adantha tala (14 beats) in contrast to the customary ‘Manjuthara’ in Thodi set to Champa tala. This piece was premiered in July 2015 at Sadanam Auditorium, Kerala, as a tribute during the birth centenary of Kizhpadam Kumaran Nair, iconic Kathakali asan.Harikumar, supported by Sadanam Sivadasan (vocal) and accompanied by Sadanam artists Ramakrishnan and Jitin (chenda), Rajagopalan and Devadas (maddalam), began singing ‘Mamiyam Chalitha’ in 4-kalai chowkam Adantha tala (56 sub units), progressively quickening to Muri Adantha tala in 28, 14, 7 and 3.5 sub units. Dhananjayan enacted the sedate opening lines set to Mohanam (56). Succeeding verses were set to Pantuvarali (56), Kharaharapriya (28), Nattakuranji (14) and Sahana (7) after which the beat became melkala mishra nadai ending with Madhyamavati (7), all rendered with exemplary raga bhava. The fact that each raga switch signalled a change in rhythmic permutation, forming distinct segments, helped in tracking nadai changes.The grand finale spotlighted the two chenda and two maddalam artists who took centre stage. At first, chenda maintained the basic rhythm, with maddalam playing permutation-combinations, after which their roles were reversed and alternated. Even as ilathalam clanged and chengila sounded the tala in the background, the tempo grew faster in dhurita and ati dhurita kala.Both chenda and maddalam exchanged a volley of electrifying sollus that swelled in volume, joined by spontaneous applause from spellbound rasikas. Truly a display of prodigious skill, power and endurance!