http://www.thehindu.com/features/kids/Under-the-lemon-tree/article13986335.ece

Jennifer loved lemons and wanted to plant a lemon tree in the backyard of their little home. After her mother made lemonade one day, she took the lemon seeds and washed them. Then, she planted them deep in the soil. Every day, after she got back from school, she would check if there were any leaves.After many days, when she went to water it, she saw the first leaf. She was overjoyed to learn that her lemon tree would grow. In a couple of months, the plant became a small tree and soon, lemons appeared. They were so fat and juicy! The tree was not too tall, and hence, she could pluck lemons herself and make lemonade anytime she wanted.Tree palSeveral months passed. The lemon tree became her best friend. Every evening when she got back from school, she used to talk to the lemon tree about her day and the new things that she had learnt. One day, she came home looking gloomy. She felt like crying. Her mother wasn’t at home. She missed her mother, and wanted to see her. But she knew that the lemon tree would be waiting for her in the backyard. She walked up to the tree and sat down, with tears in her eyes.“Lemon tree, do you know what happened today? Tony, that big, chubby boy bullied me at school. He made fun of me and said I look thin like a stick and that I have taken away his water bottle. I told him that I did not. But he would not listen. He told the teacher. Mary ma’am is sweet, but today she was in a bad mood. Hearing him complain, she punished me.”She could say no more and started to cry. After a while, she felt better and smiled at the lemon tree. Though it stood silent, she saw it had many lemons to offer. She decided to make some nice lemonade to go with the snack her mother had made for her. The lemons were really sweet and yummy. As she sipped the sweet lemonade, an idea struck her.“How about having a lemonade party with my friends?” she thought. “Instead of trying to fight Tony, I could try to become friends with him! Tomorrow is Friday — perfect for a party!” Jennifer was pleased with her idea.At school the next day, she called her friends, even Tony. Tony was surprised, but he said that he would come. “Four o’clock sharp!” she told everyone.Back home, she plucked as many lemons as she could and made lemonade with her mother’s help. In the evening, all her friends came home. Tony came in last. She offered him lemonade in a nice, tall glass. He took a sip and smiled. They played for long, and by the end of the party, Jennifer and Tony had become best friends.Game: Fruitilicious!Check out the slideshow and try your hand at the game we have for you