http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/Union-Minister-urges-UoH-students-to-end-stir/article14017039.ece

Union Minister of State for Human Resource Development Upendra Kushwaha has appealed to the students of University of Hyderabad (UoH), who are on an agitation since Monday last following the suicide of research scholar Rohith Vemula, to end their agitation.He asked them to have faith in the judicial inquiry ordered into the incidents on the university campus and assured that the HRD Ministry would take necessary steps based on the judicial probe report.“The Ministry has already ordered a judicial probe into Rohith Vemula’s suicide along with other incidents on UoH campus and it will act upon the inquiry report to be submitted in three months time. The students should have faith in the measures taken by the HRD Ministry to deal with the issue,” the Minister said speaking to newspersons on the sidelines of National Integration Meet of Navodaya Vidyalaya Samithi here on Saturday.Explaining that the judicial inquiry was instituted based on the report of a two-member fact-finding committee that had found loopholes in the university administration, Mr. Kushwaha said: We want to assure the students that they will get justice but they need to keep faith in the system. There is no need for continuing the agitation since a judicial inquiry has been ordered.Asked whether the Centre would give into the students’ demand of sacking Vice Chancellor Appa Rao Podile as the primary confidence-building measure, Mr. Kushwaha said the university would look into all the aspects related to lifting of cases on suspended students and the ministry has no role, whatsoever, in it. He, however, admitted that some “shortcomings” were found in the university administration and its response to deal with issues related to students by the two-member committee.Speaking at the function later, the Minister said suicide of a student on UoH was unfortunate. “Whole of the country has expressed sorrow for the incident. The country doesn’t want its youth to think about killing others or self, irrespective of the reasons”, Mr. Kushwaha said adding that Prime Minister had vowed to work for better academic and social atmosphere in educational institutions across the country.Venue shiftedThe ongoing agitation on the UoH campus has forced Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti to change the venue of its two-day event from DST Auditorium on the UoH camps, where it was originally scheduled, to Sampradaya Vedika in Shilparamam, a few days back. All the invitation cards of the event still have UoH as the venue of the event. However, a brochure printed latter has the changed venue.