http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/Union-government-is-communal-alleges-Minister/article14021323.ece

Communalism and superstition are the thrust of the BJP government at the Centre and research scholar Rohith Vemula’s incident is a glaring example to prove it, Minister for Higher Education and Law and Parliamentary Affairs T.B. Jayachandra has said.Replying to a question of a reporter about the Rohith Vemula issue at Mahatma Gandhi Stadium here on Tuesday, Mr. Jayachandra said that the State government will not allow tragic incidents like Rohith Vemula’s suicide to happen here. The government is committed to social justice and there is no discrimination whatsoever in the higher education field in the State.He said “I appeal to the student community not to resort to the extreme step of ending lives.”Regularisation of guest lecturersMr. Jayachandra said that there is a legal hurdle for the regularisation of guest lecturers working in first grade colleges of the State.He said that according to the Supreme Court verdict in the Umadevi case, appointment of lecturers should be done in a transparent way by inviting applications. If that procedure is followed most of the guest lecturers are not even eligible to apply as they have crossed the age limit for the post.He said the government is finding out whether their problems can be solved legally so that they get job security and financial benefits.TerrorismTerrorism should not be linked to any particular caste or religion and people from any community who resort to such activities should be punished, Mr. Jayachandra said. He said there is no information of any such activities taking place in madrasas in the State. He alleged that madrasas are being targeted by the Bharatiya Janata Party.LokayuktaThe final decision on the appointment of Lokayukta is yet to be taken, the Minister said. He has appealed to the Chief Minister to conduct one more meeting regarding the appointment of Lokayukta.MLA Rafiq Ahmed, Congress leader T.S. Niranjan and others were present.