http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/University-of-Mysore%E2%80%99s-%E2%80%98model%E2%80%99-daycare-centre/article14018738.ece

The daycare centre on the Manasagangotri campus by University of Mysore (UoM) for the children of its staff and research scholars is perhaps one of the foremost centres developed within a university.After completing seven years of service, it has now turned into a “model” for other daycare centres and crèches since it lays emphasis on children’s holistic development. Also, it has been identified as a learning centre for students of home science, including those from V.H.D. Central Institute of Home Science, a Government College in Bengaluru, for their internship programme.In addition, the postgraduate students in human development, Department of Studies in Food Science and Nutrition from University of Mysore, have their field work placement at the centre. The students conduct theme-based activities for children, besides assessing their growth and development.The centre functions under an advisory committee comprising specialists and doctors. Children aged between 6 months and four years are admitted and the maximum intake is 30 per year.The centre was founded to provide quality care based on modern, scientific and professional principles.Centre Coordinator and Assistant Professor in Human Development Komala M. told The Hindu that the university was one of the first ones to have developed such a centre on its campus. It has benefited the university staff members and working couples from outside.Children are taken care by dedicated staff members having established a motivating setting for their favourable growth, she explained.The centre functions from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.The theme-based activities, include creative activities, performances, story and rhyme session and music or watching TV. There are plenty of indoor and outdoor play items and learning materials. Importantly, they are safe with a teacher and two assistants for their care.The centre also offers child guidance and consultancy services to children and their parents.