http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/Unprecedented-security-in-place-for-Hollande%E2%80%99s-R-Day-visit/article13994505.ece

Unprecedented security measures, exceeding even those in place during United States President Barack Obama’s visit last year, will be in place when French President François Hollande visits Delhi for Republic Day celebrations this year.According to a senior government officer, 100 companies will be pressed into service for security during Mr. Hollande visits as the chief guest for Republic Day celebrations. During Mr. Obama’s visit, 95 companies guarded the Capital.Usually, 50 companies comprising 100 personnel each are deployed in Delhi during each Republic Day celebrations.Various recent events have contributed to extra security measures being adopted for Mr. Hollande’s visit. The threat perception to the French President is very high in the light of the recent Paris attacks and retaliatory strikes by the country.In addition, the terror attack in Pathankot and the possibility of some terrorists already having sneaked into Delhi have added to the risk factor.Nearly 15,000 CCTV cameras were installed in the city for Mr. Obama’s visit last Republic Day. With 165 cameras on Rajpath alone, there was practically one camera for every 180-metre on that stretch. All roads leading to Rajpath were closed for a week before the celebrations.Even greater security arrangements in all such respects will be made for Mr. Hollande’s visit, senior officers said. Airspace over the area will also be monitored.Security officials will also block all routes to be taken by the French President and metro stations around Rajpath are likely to be shut to the public at least for two days ahead of January 26.In the wake of the recent developments, Delhi’s “high alert” period has already been extended till Republic Day.Security has been beefed up at the Indira Gandhi International Airport. Many passengers at the domestic and international airports in Delhi are being made to undergo “ladder checking” in some flights, which involves a second round of frisking of passengers to ensure that they are not carrying anything illegal.“We are ensuring multiple layers of checking at the airport and our personnel have been instructed not to hesitate in asking passengers to take off their shoes or check handbags a second or even a third time if anyone’s behaviour arouses even little suspicion,” said a CISF officer.The Delhi Police have begun holding meetings with taxi drivers, hotel owners, second-hand car dealers and such entities to ensure no suspicious elements get away. A senior police officer said such meetings are being conducted in a properly scheduled manner at every police station.