http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/UoH-students-lay-siege-to-administrative-office/article13998661.ece

Protesting against the suspension of five research scholars from the hostel for the rest of their study period, a section of students laid siege to the Administrative Building of the University of Hyderabad and did not allow anyone to enter and discharge their duties.All the employees working in the building, including teachers in administrative posts, could not gain entry while the Vice Chancellor, P. Appa Rao was away in New Delhi. The students under the umbrella of a Joint Action Committee (JAC) termed the suspension as ‘undemocratic’, ‘social boycott’ and ‘inhuman’ since the students denied access to hostels were forced to sleep in a makeshift tent on the campus. “We will continue our protests till the administration withdraws its decision,” said S. Munna, a student associated with the Ambedkar Students Association (ASA).Some students of Osmania University and English and Foreign Languages University (EFLU) also held demonstrations on respective campuses in solidarity with the UoH students.The five students were denied access to hostels and other buildings on the campus except their classroom, library and conferences and workshops related to their subject of study based on the recommendations of a sub-committee of the Executive Council. The council recommended the punishment based on a Proctorial Committee enquiry. The committee was constituted after an ABVP activist was attacked on the campus.“They are from the neglected sections of the society and can’t go to their homes a few hundred kilometres away. One of them has no home to go,” said Munna alleging that they were being targeted as they expressed their dissent on hanging of Yakoob Memon and also the policies of the BJP Government. The protesting students blamed the administration of buckling under the pressure of the BJP leaders and warned they would campaign against the party in the GHMC elections projecting the suspension.Meanwhile, the University administration in a statement here said that varsity functioned normally except the administrative building blocked by the agitating students. It also termed false of rumours that the police was called inside the campus. It further said the students did not relent despite appeals from teachers that they can speak to the VC once he comes back from New Delhi.