http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Urban-elite-eager-to-contest-ZP-polls-to-launch-political-career/article14019422.ece

The urban elite in the district are planning to launch their political career by contesting the forthcoming zilla and taluk panchayat elections, the voters for which are rural.The major political parties, including Congress, Bharatiya Janata Party and Janata Dal (Secular), have received applications from members of the financially affluent and politically influential families in urban areas to contest these polls. In the runup to the elections, many urban aspirants have even enrolled their names on the voters’ list in rural areas.The number of urban aspirants are more for the ZP constituencies that enjoy geographical proximity with Shivamogga city and display semi-urban character.According to sources, K.E. Kanthesh, son of Leader of Opposition in Legislative Council K.S. Eshwarappa, is planning to contest the election as a BJP candidate from Holalur constituency. This constituency is reserved for BCM (A) category.Sharath, son of S.K. Mariyappa, a member of Shivamogga City Corporation and K. Ranganath, a prominent Youth Congress leader, are also eager to contest from Holalur on a Congress ticket.Mr. Kanthesh, Mr. Sharath and Mr. Ranganath are all residents of Shivamogga city.Likewise, Saraswathi Sharan, daughter-in-law of former MLA H.M. Chandrashekharappa, who is also a resident of Shivamogga city, is aspiring to contest as a Congress candidate from Hosudi ZP segment. This segment is reserved for General Woman this time.The family has agriculture land in and around Hosudi and enjoys a good rapport with the people there.It is said that activists of JD(S) have pressurised party district unit president M. Srikanth, who is also a resident of Shivamogga city, to contest the zilla panchayat polls from Kumsi segment.Strong resentmentThere has been a strong resentment among the people in rural areas against the plan by the urban elite to use ZP and TP elections to launch their political career. The activists of major political parties have openly expressed displeasure in this regard at the meetings convened by their parties recently to discuss the preparations for the elections.Rajesh Mayar, a farmer from Manchikoppa village in Shikaripur taluk told The Hindu, that the farmers in rural areas are in financial distress owing to fluctuation in the prices of agriculture produce and lack of access to credit facilities. Many villages have remained deprived of basic amenities, like drinking water and power supply. As the urban population is ignorant of the problems in rural areas, they should not be allowed to contest these elections, Mr. Mayar said.The urban people involved in mining, real estate business and retired bureaucrats are planning to contest the ZP and TP elections not to serve the people, but to fulfil their selfish ends, said a Congress activist from Talaguppa village in Sagar taluk on condition of anonymity.“Political parties should realise that fielding an urban candidate for zilla and taluk panchayat elections amounts to denying political opportunities for the rural people,” he added.Kanthesh, son of K.S. Eshwarappa, is planning to contest from Holalur constituency