http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/US-Consulate-in-Hyderabad-provides-notarial-services/article13981900.ece

My wife and I are Indian nationals. We had surrendered our U.S. permanent residency few years ago. We have sold our property in the U.S. now and the closing agent wants our signatures to be notarised by the U.S. Consulate on the closing documents. Does the virtual U.S. Consulate in Bengaluru offer such services?If yes, how do we get appointments? What are the documents that we should submit?GopalThe virtual U.S. Consulate in Bengaluru is not equipped to handle notarial services.You will need to make an appointment with American Citizen Services at one of our physical consulates.If you would like to make an appointment at U.S. Consulate General Hyderabad, you can do so on our website.We provide notarial services Monday through Thursday between 9:30 a.m. to 11:45 a.m.My kid’s visas had expired in March 2015. I want to renew their visas now. Can they utilize the drop box facility? What documents should they submit?Chintapatla Anil KumarYour kid may qualify to renew his/her visas through the Interview Waiver Program (IWP).If your child turns 14 and needs a new visa, they may still qualify but will need to provide their fingerprints at the Visa Application Center. Please visit our website www.ustraveldocs.com for information on renewals.If they do not qualify for IWP, you will have to schedule an appointment through our online system.I had given my course of study as bachelor of technology instead of mentioning it as computer science engineering.Is there is any chance for changing the information?Avinash KottuOnce the DS-160 application has been submitted, it is not possible to make changes.If you would like to make changes, you should fill out a new DS-160 form with the correct information.I completed my undergraduate degree from Osmania University in 2004. I now plan to do Master’s in the U.S. What is the procedure to apply for a student visa?Imitiyaz ShaikFor information on studying in the U.S. and the requirements of the various school programs, please visit www.usief.org.in and www.educationusa.state.gov.For details on applying for a student visa (F-1), visit www.ustraveldocs.com.My visa was approved at the Chennai consulate in August. I had made all the travel arrangements. Just a week ahead of my travel, I had received an email stating my visa is no longer valid. I had rescheduled my appointment at the Hyderabad consulate in September 2015. The interviewing officer informed me that I would receive an email notification with further details within a week.I hadn’t received any update and my case is still under administrative processing. I had missed my admission date into the university in October.How long would it take for my visa to be approved? What is the next step I should do at this time?NandiniWe cannot answer questions about specific cases in a public forum due to privacy laws. To inquire further about your case, please contact support-india@ustraveldocs.com.Do you have questions about visas or other services provided by the U.S. Consulate General in Hyderabad?Each alternate Monday, Consulate officials will answer your questions. Email your questions to queries2consul@gmail.com.If you have questions related to specific visa cases or refusals, please email support-india@ustraveldocs.com.You can also visit the Consulate website at: http://hyderabad.usconsulate.gov for more information.