http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/Vacuum-cleaning-of-roads-on-the-anvil/article13992716.ece

The Delhi government had announced vacuum cleaning of roads in December to curb rising pollution levels. However, the responsibility to clean the main roads, which are otherwise maintained by the Public Works Department, rests with the three Municipal Corporations that come under the Home Ministry.Recently, the PWD in a communication to the three corporations communicated its decision to take over even the cleaning of the roads from April 1.“We received a Cabinet note from the Delhi government asking for our comments on vacuum cleaning and informing us that PWD will clean their own roads,” said a senior South Corporation official. The corporations for long had been demanding sanitation grants from the government for cleaning their roads.PWD Minister Satyendar Jain confirmed that PWD has started the tendering process to procure vacuum cleaners. “Municipal corporations haven’t been able to keep the city clean. City roads are manually swept but the dust particles remain in the air. From April 1, we will vacuum clean our roads,” said Mr Jain.But corporation officials are apprehensive of the vacuum cleaning methods.“We tried outsourcing the sweeping work and got mechanical sweepers to tackle the dust problem in 2009 but couldn’t succeed. In 2012, we took all the mechanical sweepers off the roads,” said the official. The main problems were unevenness of roads, parking on roads, hawkers and building material dumped on the streets. “The machine had rollers set at uniform level while the roads are uneven. At many points, the mechanical sweepers’ rollers would rotate in the air.”However, Satyendar Jain explained that the vacuum cleaners will be different from the mechanical sweepers and PWD will not repeat Corporations’ mistakes. “These vacuum cleaners are different from mechanical sweepers; smaller in size and more effective.”City roads are manually swept but the dust particles remain in the airSatyendar JainPWD Minister