http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Vanchipaattu-creates-ripples-of-excitement/article14020710.ece

Paroorandezhinum nathan aaya Narayanan appol… The team from TRK HSS, Vaniyamkulam, Palakkad, sang these lines from Bheeshmaparvam with great feeling during the Vanchipaattu HSS event at the State school arts festival on Monday.It has not been long since Vanchipattu made its debut at the State school arts festival. These ‘boat songs’ are full of vim and vigour, their rhythm infectious, making it easy for even laymen to enjoy it. These had existed as oral traditions before Kunchan Nambiar and Ramapurathu Warrier gave it form and direction. Kuchela vritham, Karuna, Prahalada Charitham, Kiratham, Kalyana Souganthikam all are tapped into for performances.The Palakkad team was one among the many who sang in the Aranmula style of Vanchipaatu. The Aranmula style is distinct from the Kuttanad style, and the dominant emotion is one of devotion. It is slower, and is accompanied by clapping. The props on stage include the idol of Lord Krishna, ‘para,’ and coconut flowers. The Kuttanad style is fast-paced, and involves the rowing movement by the participants. The beats are kept by an ‘olakka,’ a cylindrical rod used to pound grains in kitchens.Champakulam Baby, State president, Vanchipattu Sangham, said while there was a strong body of traditional songs, there should be no hurdles to singing contemporary songs. What mattered was the content of the songs and the tunes. However, there was not much innovation as most people preferred to stick to traditional songs. “Why can’t a song about Thiruvananthapuram and its political heritage be sung as Vanchipattu if it can strike a chord with the masses?”Awarding of ‘B’ grades to participants was regrettable at the State level, Mr. Champakulam Baby said. He said the participants at the State level had come through the sub-district and district-level contests successfully after much hardship and expense. Some of the teams were from central and northern Kerala, and had travelled far to reach the State capital. A lot of effort had gone into including Vanchipattu in the State festival, and nothing that reduced participation in it and affected its prospects should be done. Many teachers also depended on it for their livelihood, Mr. Baby said.