http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/Varsity-comes-out-with-the-sequence-of-events/article14008895.ece

The UoH said serious efforts were made to reduce the quantum of punishment given to the five students on the campus and also assured students that a review of even that punishment would be done after the High Court’s decision where the issue was pending.However, even before the HC could hear the issue, the suicide of Rohit Vemula led to the present situation, according to a statement issued by the university. The detailed note explained the entire episode.It said Susheel Kumar, the then president of the ABVP unit on the campus, was allegedly attacked by a group of students belonging to the Ambedkar Students’ Association (ASA) during the intervening night of August 3 and 4. The Proctorial Board of the University inquired into the matter and submitted an interim report before talking to the victim, and a final report after talking to the victim.The Executive council (EC) approved the punishment to expel the five students, including Rohit, and the ASA students did not allow the university administration to function for two days consecutively, forcing the then in-charge Vice-Chancellor, Prof. R.P. Sharma, to withdraw the order with a condition that the matter will be looked into afresh. Accordingly, a committee was constituted by Prof. Sharma but the committee replied back indicating that the recommendations of the statutory bodies like Proctorial Board and Executive Council cannot be reviewed by such a committee.Meanwhile, Susheel Kumar’s mother filed a case in the High Court which sought report on the action taken on the recommendations of the Proctorial Board and also fixed a deadline. At a meeting of deans and administrative officers, including chief warden and Dean of Students’ Welfare (DSW), it was decided that a sub-committee of the Executive Council will examine the matter and submit recommendations.At the full EC meeting on November 27, the V-C proposed to the EC to be a lenient as students will be deprived of scholarships and scale down the punishment to the use of their departments, library and academic meetings, but not the hostel, administration and other public places on the campus. The chief warden communicated the same to the students on December 20 and also double-locked the rooms.Later, the students expelled from the hostel moved the High Court, which observed that the petition will be heard together with the one filed by Susheel’s mother and posted it for January 19. On Jan. 3, the students decided on “sleep in open” protest and erected a small tent at a shopping complex and three of them were found sleeping. On January 13, the Students JAC closed the administration building forcing the VC to advance his return journey from New Delhi.On January 14, the V-C talked to the representatives of the JAC along with the president of the students’ union for about two hours and appealed to them to wait for the court’s decision. On January 17, the JAC erected a tent for hunger strike. The suicide news broke out at 7 p.m. on the same day. Meanwhile, the concerned Deputy Commissioner of Police suggested that the chief proctor, DSW and the V-C should move out of the campus with their families.