http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Varsity-to-form-body-of-horticultural-farmers/article13985303.ece

D.L. Maheshwar, Vice-Chancellor, University of Horticulture Sciences-Bagalkot, has said that the university was constituting a cooperative association of the farmer producing improved variety of horticulture crops in the district.Speaking after inaugurating interactive session on improved variety of horticulture crops organised by the university here on Tuesday, he said that the university would provide necessary information about cultivation, technology and marketing of improved variety of crop to the farmers.Dr. Maheshwar said that the university has set up a state-of-the-art research centre for horticulture crops for giving quality products to the farmers.He said that soon, a horticulture mobile van would be introduced by the university for the benefit of farmers.He informed that 40 per cent of the agriculture products of the State was coming from horticulture sector and the university was trying to improved the quality and quantity of the produces. “Horticulture crops are cultivated on only 5 per cent land in Bagalkot. The district stands 15th position in the horticulture sector while Vijayapura has secured ninth position in the State,” he said.Stating that horticulture sector was gaining popularity, he informed that the district has 70 per cent farmers who have an average of 2 hectares of cultivable land.These farmers could be encouraged to take up horticulture as it was best suitable for small and marginal farmers.He informed that the university had developed over 20 improved varieties of vegetables, not just the farmers but urban people could make use of it for developing kitchen garden.Dr. Maheshwar said that if the farmers were educated about the improved varieties, they could earn higher revenue with limited input cost. J. Venkatesh, Director of Research, and A. B. Patil, Extension Director, also spoke on the issue.Several progressive farmers and experts were present.