http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Mangalore/Varsity-decides-to-change-course-nomenclature/article14020254.ece

The Academic Council of Mangalore University in its meeting on Monday approved changes from the next academic year in the nomenclature of Bachelor of Business Management (BBM) and six other courses as directed by the University Grants Commission (UGC)Hence, Bachelor of Business Management would be called Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA).Masters in Communication and Journalism and Masters in Communication and Media Studies courses would be called MA in Journalism and Mass Communication. The MLI.Sc will be called M.LibI.Sc, MIB as M.Com International Business, MHRD as M.Com HRD and MBA Tourism Administration as MBA Tourism and Travel Management.The changes would be made as per the notification of the UGC issued on March 2014. On September 11, 2015, UGC secretary Jaspal S. Sandhu wrote a letter to the vice-chancellor reiterating that it was binding on all universities to align all degree courses as per the March 2014 notification. Mr. Sandhu has said that any violation would render “unrecognised” the degree courses not mentioned in the notification.University Vice-Chancellor K. Byrappa told the meeting on Monday that it was necessary to change the nomenclature of the degree courses as per the notification to prevent the prospect of de-recognition of courses. “In a Karnataka Higher Education Council meeting, the Higher Education Minister has clearly told us to act as per the directions of the UGC,” he said, rejecting the recommendation of Board of Studies not to change the nomenclature of the BBM course.Questioning the change, T. Mallikarjunappa, an academic council member, said that the BBM course has been in vogue since 1973 while the BBA was a recent one. It was not proper to change the name of a course that was an old one, as it may create confusion among students. He also quoted several instances of the UGC changing names of courses that it had suggested.University Registrar T.D. Kemparaju said that as the changes were notified by the UGC, the university has to go by it “whether we agree or not”. However, Mr. Byrappa asked lecturers to submit their opinion about any changes to the UGC.Bachelor of Business Management will be called Bachelor of Business Administration