http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/VAT-hike-attracts-widespread-criticism/article13984287.ece

The Naveen Patnaik government’s decision to raise VAT by 3 per cent resulting in increase in petrol prices by Rs.1.39 and diesel by Rs.1.10 has attracted widespread criticism from the Opposition parties and people as well.“In pursuance to approval of the Cabinet, the VAT rate on petrol and diesel has been enhanced from 23 per cent to 26 per cent from January 5. The State will collect additional revenue of Rs.361 crore per annum,” said State Finance Minister Pradip Amat on Tuesday.After VAT revision, the retail selling price of petrol will be Rs.59.95 per litre and Rs. 49.07 for diesel.The government explained that the effective VAT rate on fuel in Odisha is one of the lowest rates in the country. While Andhra Pradesh is charging VAT of 32.72 per cent, Telengana has fixed it at 27 per cent. Similarly, the VAT on petrol and diesel in Maharashtra is 28.93 per cent, Madhya Pradesh (28.26 per cent) and Kerala (27.35 per cent). Jharkhand with 25.17 per cent and Chhattisgarh (25 per cent) have lower VAT rate than Odisha.The finance department said due to reduction of price of crude oil in international market and subsequent decrease in basic price of petrol and diesel, there could be loss of revenue (VAT and Entry Tax) to the tune of Rs.417.20 crore per annum as result of which the government was forced to increase VAT by 3 per cent. Compared to this, the Union government has increased tax on petrol and diesel by 108.21 per cent and 288.09 per cent respectively between April 2, 2014, and January 2, 2016.The revision in fuel price due to hike in VAT has not gone down well with the Opposition political parties.The Congress has demanded immediate withdrawal of the hike. “While general public is struggling to cope with rising prices of essential commodities, the State government has increased VAT by 3 per cent on fuel prices. For sake of larger interest of people, the government must withdraw the VAT on petrol and diesel,” said Prasad Harichandan, president of Odisha Pradesh Congress Committee.Mr. Harichandan pointed out that prices of other essential commodities would go up due to upward revision of fuel price. Similarly, the BJP’s Legislative party leader in the State Assembly, Basant Panda, criticised the State government for snatching away the advantage of sharp fall of price of crude oil in international market.“The hike in VAT on petrol and diesel will have cascading impact on bus fare and transportation cost which is unwarranted. The government should immediately roll back the decision,” said Rabi Behera, president of Samajwadi Party, Odisha.Odisha Congress, SP and BJP demand withdrawal of the hike