http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Vedike-opposes-letting-out-stadium-for-commercial-activities/article13998553.ece

The Department of Youth Empowerment and Sports has come under fire from various quarters for frequently letting out the district stadium for rent for commercial purposes.The Sir M. Visvesvaraya District Stadium here was constructed for the sake of practising and staging sports events. Nevertheless, the department has been rent it out for commercial activities at regular intervals.At least six events, in guise of involving youth to perform dance and other cultural activities, were held at the stadium in the recent past.While a three-day meet was organised recently, another four-day event is scheduled to begin on January 16.The stadium has a 400-m track and a football field. At least 1,500 people use the stadium everyday for jogging and to play cricket, volleyball and other sports. All these activities get invariably suspended whenever the stadium is let out for any event.The organisers of various events leave the stadium’s surface damaged, besides setting up stalls and renting them out to others, president of the Karnataka Rakshana Vedike H.D. Jayaramu said.P.M. Somashekar, vice-president of the Sports Authority of Karnataka (SAK), has urged the district administration not to rent out the stadium.\Speaking to The Hindu over telephone from Chamarajanagar on Wednesday, Mr. Somashekar said, “The High Court had passed an order against permitting non-sports activities at the stadium. But, several dance and other programmes are held there, regularly.”Mr. Somashekar said that he would discuss the matter with the Minister for Youth Empowerment and Sports.“We will organise fashion show, dance programne, comedy talk, food festival and other events between January 16 and 19 at the stadium,” Mandya Youth Group president Anil Anand said in a press release here on Wednesday.Audio and trailer of the movie “Bhujanga” would be held here, he said.Although the events start from January 16, preparations like installation of poles, which is against one of the conditions, began on Wednesday. The workers disfigured the stadium by installing over 60 poles for setting up stalls.“We charge only Rs. 10,000 a day,” Swamy, in-charge assistant director of the department, said.But, the department spends at least Rs. 50,000 to repair the damaged items and facilities, another official said.The department should stop renting out the stadium for non-sports events, said basketball player Kamala.“Organisers use loudspeakers and flood-lights, erect pendals, stalls and install poles,” Manoranjan, student of Government Autonomous College, said.Digging holes in the stadium has been banned, Deputy Commissioner M.N. Ajay Nagabhushan said.“Henceforth, we will not let out the stadium for such activities,” said Additional Deputy Commissioner B.R. Poornima, who has been authorised to rent out the stadium, said.