http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Visakhapatnam/Venkaiah-slams-Opposition-on-special-category-status/article14003055.ece

Stating that the BJP-led NDA government was giving special preference to Andhra Pradesh in sanction of various projects, Union Urban Development Minister M. Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday came down heavily on the Opposition parties mainly the Congress for politicising over denial of special category status. He was speaking at ‘Sankranti Milan’ organised by local MP and BJP State president K. Haribabu, Visakha North MLA P. Vishnu Kumar Raju, Gajuwaka MLA Palla Srinivasa Rao and others.He said the Congress, despite being in power at the Centre for 50 years, was intolerant to accept the fact that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was heading a popular government. The World Economic Forum had given good rating to India in ease of doing business, investments, attracting FDI and containing inflation.“They had stalled the country’s progress by obstructing proceedings in Parliament. They are responsible for bulldozing passage of key legislations like Goods and Services Tax Bill. Their one-point agenda is to tarnish the image of the BJP and its government,” he said.Mr. Naidu explained that due to objections over granting of SCS to AP by the Finance Commission and similar demand by other States, the Niti Aayog was studying the issue. He said as far as granting of funds was concerned, AP was getting the highest priority.The Minister pointed out that both Mr. Modi and Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu were the best combination to steer the State on the path of progress. He said despite non-compliance of commitment on SCS, several investors exuded their enthusiasm to invest in AP by signing MoUs with a total commitment to invest nearly Rs.5 lakh crore in AP at the just-concluded CII Partnership Summit.Polavaram projectStaking credit for taking up Polavaram irrigation project, he said it was the NDA government which promulgated an Ordinance to merge seven mandals of Telangana with AP. He said the Centre had cleared the proposals to set up National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research and Petrochemcial Complex in Visakhapatnam and a full-fledged Central Institute of Plastics Engineering Technology at Vijayawada.He said Dredging Corporation of India would set up a facility with an investment of Rs.1600 crore in Konaseema region. He said Union Minister for Communications and IT Ravi Shankar Prasad would lay the stone for hardware R&D complex by SAMEER at a cost Rs.80 crore in Visakhapatnam shortly.Modi and Chandrababu Naidu are the best combination to steer the State on the path of progressVenkaiah NaiduUnion Minister