http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/Victims-of-%E2%80%98contract-marriage%E2%80%99-to-get-aid/article14011227.ece

Parents who had allegedly planned or married off their daughters to ‘rich’ foreigners in the hope of improving their living standards but instead got conned, can now hope for financial assistance from the government.The Telangana State Minorities Finance Corporation (TSMFC) is now preparing a financial package for such victims to help them tide over their financial mess. In most of the cases, it was found that parents were facing financial hardship and were lured by brokers with promise of handsome amount as ‘meher’ and a comfortable life for their daughters. “We will be issuing loans under various bankable schemes on priority basis to these families. Alternatively, we propose to set up small businesses for them and provide vocational training to such girls or women,” TSMFC Managing Director, B Shafiullah told The Hindu.Over the last few years, the city police had caught several foreign nationals mainly from Oman, United Arab Emirates, Sudan, Somalia and Nigeria for cheating women by conning them into marriages and later divorcing them within weeks or months. The police on their part register a criminal case against the accused foreigner, broker and the local Qazi who solemnises the marriage and remand them. “We are asking the police to provide us the list of such cases reported in the last five years along with the details of the victims or their families. Once they hand it over to us, we will talk to the families and help them out,” Mr. Shafiullah said that the TSMFC will take care of the education and boarding of the victims who are minors and want to continue their studies.Meanwhile, the Minorities Welfare Department is formulating guidelines for Qazis who perform marriages in consultation with various stakeholders. The rules will prohibit contract marriages and insist on proper marriage registers and other records. “The aim is to stop the marriage of minor girls and other frauds. Recently, in a case of contract marriage, we found that the qazi did not mention the name of the girl, meher amount and other details in the nikah-nama (marriage certificate),” Syed Omer Jaleel, Special Secretary, Minority Welfare Department told.There are 56 government-appointed qazis in the Telangana and they have naib (head) qazis working under them. The Kasi Act, 1880 has four sections and does not have any for rules that the qazi should follow. “The rules that we want to add on will make sure the qazis follow practices meant for the common good. We will also ask the qazis to insist on a police certificate for foreign nationals who intend to marry local girls,” the officer said.