http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Victims-to-saviours/article14010185.ece

At a time when legal aid is fast going out of the common man’s reach, Renu D. Singh is taking the approach to a new level by rendering legal assistance to the underprivileged section, especially women in the rural areas, through a mobile legal clinic.The bus is a complete office equipped with computers, phones, printer and audio-visual equipment on wheels which is run by eight para-legal trained women, two of whom drive while another two are trained automobile mechanics making them completely independent and self-sufficient. Speaking about the objective, Renu, who runs the NGO Samadhan, says: “We realised that those in need of legal help were either unaware of the rape crisis intervention centre (RCIC) or unable to contact it. It is imperative for all the women to have access to law and judiciary to make our democracy successful, sustainable and all-inclusive.”Moving around different districts and blocks of Uttarakhand and other areas of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh which have a high rate of crime incidence, the NGO organises camps which are publicised through FM channels and local panchayats where individuals are provided complete legal run-down on their cases, including how to initiate proceedings, the sections under which it will be redressed and the time it will take among others besides getting the case registered. Besides offering free legal aid, the cases are monitored. “We step in the moment it is realised that the case is not proceeding properly,” she informs.Renu, a law graduate from Lucknow University recalls how the incident of assault on a 12-year-old girl by her father leading to pregnancy and death left an indelible impact. “I focused on creating legal awareness among women and their empowerment. Most men, found it extremely uncomfortable when as a young woman I talked about sexual assault and domestic violence with many suggesting that I take up other issues,” says Renu on the sidelines of the JSPL Foundation’s function where she along with eight other individuals was awarded the Rashtriya Swyamsiddh Samman.In 1996, the lawyer established the RCIC, Samadhan, in Dehra Dun focusing on victims of domestic violence and physical and sexual assault. “Abhorring the idea of victims’ seclusion in nari niketans and engaging them in making papad, achar and baskets I decided to groom them as para-legal workers and help them to qualify as lawyers to assist others in their community and society,” explains Renu. The project, according to Renu, has so far groomed 1700 women as legal professionals.