http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Vigilance-court-orders-probe-against-ADGP/article14020793.ece

The Vigilance court here has ordered registering of a case and subsequent investigation against ADGP R. Sreelekha who allegedly caused huge loss to State exchequer in her earlier capacity as the Transport Commissioner.Acting on a private complaint lodged by M. Johnson of Muringoor near here, Judge S.S. Vasan directed Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau to investigate the allegation that she had acted out of hand in issuing permits for private vehicles in a way enabling them to evade taxes.The petitioner told the court that Ms. Sreelekha had created a situation in which private vehicle owners could enjoy the exemption granted to school buses and vans.Ms. Sreelekha is the third respondent in the case. Chalakudy-based private bus operator Joy Antony and Chalakkudy Nirmala College Principal Sajeev Vattoli are the first and second respondents in the case.The fourth respondent is Chalakudy Joint RTO Reji Varghese.The petitioner told the court that a new private bus must remit taxes worth Rs.1,47,000 while obtaining permit.However, a school bus need to pay only taxes worth Rs.3,920.The complainant said Ms. Sreelekha was part of the conspiracy to issue permits to private buses by passing them off as educational institution vehicles.In the case of Nirmala College in Chalakkudy, the college bus was actually owned by a private bus operator in the town whose 15 buses operate in the locality.However, the permits he used were in the name of the college. Officials helped him illegally to evade tax, the petitioner said.Report by March 28The Vigilance Director has been asked to submit a report in the court by March 28.The court observed that Crime Branch had earlier investigated the same allegation across the State and had found inadequacies.The claim of additional legal advisor of the Vigilance that Ms. Sreelekha had no direct link with the alleged kickback was rejected by the court.