http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/Vikram-Goud-is-Congress-GHMC-Mayoral-candidate/article14020084.ece

Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee on Monday named Vikram Goud, son of former Congress Minister M. Mukesh Goud, as the party’s Mayoral candidate for the GHMC polls.Mr. Vikram Goud is the party candidate from Jambagh division and is a Youth Congress leader.The Congress leaders have stepped up their election campaign and have roped in the AICC general secretaries – Digvijay Singh and Ghulam Nabi Azad – to address rallies in the city on January 29 and 30. The party leaders will address a public meeting in the old city.Meanwhile, the TPCC chief announced a campaign committee to be headed by Rajya Sabha member V. Hanumantha Rao. The other committee members are: former Union Minister Sarvey Satyanarayana, Lok Sabha member Nandi Yellaiah, Rajya Sabha member Renuka Chowdary, former Ministers P. Sabitha Indra Reddy, M. Sashidhar Reddy and G.Prasad Kumar, former MP Anjan Kumar Yadav ands MLC P. Sudhakar Reddy.At a separate press conference here, TPCC chief spokesperson Dasoju Shravan derided the TRS election manifesto and termed it as an imaginary document. He questioned the utterances of the TRS leaders in the past on the Metro Rail project. He said previously the TRS leaders threatened that there would be bloodbath if the project was completed, and now the same leaders are praising it. Is it not a fact that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had written a letter demanding that the alignment for Metro Rail project be changed? he remarked.VHR wants students toconfront BJP, TRSMr. Hanumantha Rao at a press conference urged the students in the Twin Cities to vote against the BJP and TRS in the GHMC elections. He said if the BJP leadership is trying to diver the issue of suicide of University of Hyderabad research scholar Rohith Vemula, the TRS leadership’s silence on the incident and failure of the Ministers to call on the family of the deceased student was unfortunate. He said on this count, the students should vote against the two parties in the GHMC election.