http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Vijayawada/Villagers-grill-CRDA-officials-on-pension/article13997303.ece

The farmers were up in arms against the State government and AP Capital Region Development Authority (CRDA) at an awareness meeting on the recently released draft master plan for the capital city, organised here on Tuesday.They raised many contentious issues, including pensions and annuity promised as part of Land Pooling Scheme (LPS) by the government, such as pensions and annuity to farmers, and nativity. They also wanted categorical statement on free health and education promised by the government to their children.The farmers literally grilled the CRDA officials on promise of providing additional 50 square yards of land to them for parting with their lands under the LPS.“We trusted the assurances of Ministers. We did not want to embarrass the government by raising objections to the scheme when Assembly session was going on. We readily accepted the proposals. But, the government is silent thereafter,” said villagers.Dhanekula Rama Rao, a farmer, pointed out that the government had promised to provide free health and education facility to the villagers. “Why there is no progress in that direction?” he asked.“Some of the villagers have migrated to other places in search of livelihood. The government has not cleared the air on nativity so far. We want the government to announce a cut off date and see that all those who have lands here and migrated to the places be considered as residents of Nelapadu,” he said.Villagers like Talasila Siva Mallikarjuna Rao quizzed the CRDA officials on allotment of developed plots. They sought to know why the government was not allotting lands abutting ‘ceremonial road’, road that leads to government complexes and Rajbhavan, to them.They felt that the government was retaining the lands which have high commercial value with it and allotting lands with less commercial value to the farmers.They felt that the government was restricting the number of floors to eleven in their village. It would not help the farmers in anyway as all residential development takes place in core capital where there were few restrictions. They sought to know why the CRDA was linking the number floors, land to the floor space index (FSI).CRDA Director (Planning) V. Ramudu merely said, “The government was offering best ever FSI to them and the farmers can construct upto eleven floors according to the FSI.”Guntur Joint Collector Ch. Sredhar, sensing the mood, tried to pacify the villagers saying that land in Jubilee and Banjara Hills was more costlier compared to other parts of Hyderabad as apartments were not allowed there.“Even your lands will get higher value. Constructing apartments may not be viable if set backs, cost of construction were to be considered,” he added.