http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Villagers-dig-trench-to-stop-garbage-trucks/article14022649.ece

For the second day in a row, garbage from east, west and south zones has not been sent to the two new waste processing units in Seegehalli and Kannahalli on the city’s outskirts. On Monday, the communities living around the units had dug a trench to prevent garbage compactors from going into the units. Their sole demand is the immediate closure of both units.Narasimha Murthy, a resident of Kannahalli and member of the struggle committee opposing both units, said that the communities had decided to intensify their struggle once the model code of conduct for zilla and taluk panchayat elections ends on February 16. However, sources said that BBMP officials suspect a political hand behind the protests.Kannahalli and Seegehalli units get around 300 tonnes of segregated wet waste every day from east, west and south zones. The waste is now being diverted to the units in Doddabidarakallu, Chikkanagamangala, Subbarayanapalya, Lingadheeranahalli and Mavallipura.“We have enough capacity to handle the additional waste at the other processing units,” said Subodh Yadav, BBMP’s Special Commissioner (Solid Waste Management). “We have invested a lot of money to set up these plants and it is up to the government to take a call on their closure. The BBMP is struggling to change the mindset of the communities, which are based on its (civic body’s) historical mistakes,” he said referring to Mavallipura and Mandur.Odour control measuresWith increasing complaints from communities living around new waste processing units, the BBMP has taken up a few pilot projects to reduce the stench. According to senior officials, the Karnataka Compost Development Corporation unit is testing a bio filter system that proved successful in the fish markets of Kochi in Kerala.The system has been developed by the National Institute of Interdisciplinary Science and Technology. The results are expected by February 15. If successful, it will be adopted by other units as well. The BBMP is also trying out other options, including enzyme cultures. A few private firms have come forward to take up pilot projects in the waste processing units.Cab driver shows the wayRaghu Kumar, called ‘Raghu Samartha’ by friends, spends his free time keeping the city clean. Employed as a driver with a cab company, Raghu uses his time off to sweep the street he lives on and then volunteers with waste management groups to keep garbage off the streets.“I spend a lot of time at the airport because of my job. The area looks so beautiful that I feel like it should be kept clean. I have also attended a few cleaning drives in Koramangala,” says the resident of Peenya. When asked what motivates him, Mr. Kumar replied, “I had visited my village in Doddaballapura last year during the rains. I saw a lot of fish that had died because of indiscriminate dumping of garbage. I decided then to support the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan and started cleaning the place where I work.”