http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Villagers-up-in-arms-against-expressway/article13999011.ece

The government’s claim that it will ensure that villagers will not be affected by the proposed Amarvarti Expressway seems to have cut no ice with them. The people of Krishnayapalem, Mandadam and Inavolu are steadfast in their opposition to the project. There are also those who regret their decision to part with their lands for the capital city construction under the Land Pooling Scheme (LPS).Katta Krishna Rao, who claims to be a Telugu Desam Party (TDP) activist in Mandadam, said he was not convinced with the government’s assurance that the Expressway project would not disturb villages, and that suitable compensation would be paid to those who parted with their lands.“In the first instance, we parted with our lands for the capital city project. Now, the government has come out with plans to construct an Expressway that will pass through our village. How can we allow it to happen? We won’t allow any demolition in our village,” he said.Peddi Venkateswara Rao, a farmer from Krishnayapalem, said the villagers had surrendered their lands to the government after they were promised that the project in no way would disturb the village.“The government is not giving any clarity on the issue, which may lead to unrest in the region,” he said, adding that the Krishnayapalem village panchayat had even passed a resolution recently against the project.Peddi Sivaramakrishna, another farmer, said half the village would vanish if the government went ahead with its plans.“There are more than 1,000 houses in the village. And, the Expressway proposal has pushed everyone into jeopardy,” he said.Assurance soughtFarmers also wanted a categorical assurance from the Capital Region Development Authority (CRDA) that the project would not disturb their villages. “First, we want an assurance that no village in the capital region will be wiped out or disturbed when the actual construction of the capital city begins,” said the agitated villagers.The Amaravati Expressway is a road proposed between the capital region and the National Highway (NH). The capital city will have an expressway and a semi-expressway of the length of 127 km and arterial roads of 155 km. Municipal Administration Minister P. Narayana had recently said that the Expressway and aerial roads would not pass through villages.“Only three villages, – Mandadam and Krishnayapalem – are likely to be affected. [The Minister did not disclose the name of the third village]. CRDA officials have been asked to ensure minimum damage to properties and less land acquisition. The government will compensate for the lands acquired and pay double the compensation,” he said.