http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Virgin-coconut-oil-in-capsule-form-to-hit-market-soon/article13987851.ece

Virgin coconut oil (VCO), considered an abundant source of vitamins, minerals, and antioxidants, will soon be available in capsule form.The Central Plantation Crops Research Institute (CPCRI) of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) has developed a technology to make capsules of VCO. The technology has already been transferred to a few companies, said P. Chowdappa, Director of ICAR-CPCRI, here on Thursday. A coconut producer company in Kerala is engaged in making the product.Lauric acid contained in VCO is used by the body to make the fatty acid derivative monolaurin, which has disease-fighting properties. Mother’s milk contains lauric acid and the same transformation happens in the body of the bay. “Thus, virgin coconut oil is next to mother’s milk. Research has also found that VCO has the power to control AIDS,” Mr. Chowdappa says.The CPCRI has also developed a technology for making curd and buttermilk from coconut milk. Coconut milk is vegetarian milk.It is recommended for people having allergy towards milk of cow and other milch animals, according to Mr. Chowdappa.Another landmark technology developed by the scientists of the CPCRI is that of extraction of neera. The technology has been transferred to two companies in Kerala. A technology for producing chips from coconut has also been developed by the scientists of the institute. Such value-added products have the potential to transform the fortunes of the farmer.Value addition to coconut through implementation of technologies developed by the CPCRI could go a long way in enriching coconut-based agribusiness. Only 8 per cent value addition in coconut is happening in India, whereas it is 60 to 70 per cent in the Philippines, Mr. Chowdappa says.At least 20 to 25 per cent value addition can be done in coconut in Kerala. The technology is not costly either. The brighter side is that the use of virgin coconut oil has picked up as a negative campaign launched by certain quarters against coconut oil has subsided, he adds.VCO is considered to be an abundant source of vitamins, minerals, andantioxidants