http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Virtual-Mechanic/article13997415.ece

Q: Hi, I own a Honda Civic and face a problem with scraping the car's belly on rough roads or high bumps. I'd like to raise the ground clearance. Please direct me as to how to go about this.PranabA: While the Civic has low ground clearance, the car’s soft suspension is what causes the underside to hit. Due to the suspension’s high rebound characteristics, the car scrapes over big speed bumps and bad roads. There is no simple and reliable way to fix this issue. We recommend that you invest in a nice aftermarket suspension kit from the likes of Tien or Bilstein. Contact Red Rooster Performance (+91 96863 39999) for Tien and Pete’s Performance (+91 98950 88444) for Bilstein products, respectively.Q: I drive the Mercedes-Benz C-class Avantgarde (2013 model). Unfortunately, I have developed a slipped disc and a consequent backache. My physiotherapist says I should not drive the C-class as it's a low-slung car. Should I move to the E-class as it's a bit higher? Or would you advice I use some other car?SubbuA: Quite frankly, the ride comfort of the previous-generation C-class is possibly the best amongst compact luxury cars. We find it even better than the E-class! We feel you should try and stick to the C-class, if not look at the Camry or new Accord (coming in Feb 2016) which have a really plush ride and easier-to-access cabin.Q: There's a price difference of Rs 80,000 between the new Maruti Baleno's Sigma and Delta petrol variants, based on the features on offer. Please tell me which is better: To get features like music system, rear power windows and parking camera aftermarket at a much lower cost or pay the premium amount tobuy company fitted equipment?ArvindA: While you can definitely buy the entertainment system, parking sensors, security system and wheel caps from the aftermarket, installing rear power windows, defogger, steering audio controls, electrically foldable OVRMs, automatic air-conditioning and 60:40 rear seats in the aftermarket is not feasible.Q: My Safari Storme vibrates a lot more than normal during engine start-stop. I have changed the engine and gear foundations but the problem still persists. The authorised service centre tells me that the problem is because it is a 4x4, but I don't believe that. Please help.ZishanA: We don’t think the service centre may be wrong in this case. Overall refinement, although a massive improvement over the Safari Dicor, was still not a strong area for the original Safari Storme, and the 4x4 version was the worst-off of the lot. The drivetrain is a source of noise and vibration with the gearbox, two differentials, two driveshafts and a transfer case, but unlike modern 4x4s, it is a dated design. As long as the vibrations aren’t being transmitted to pedals or other body panels, you pretty much have to live with the Safari as is.