http://www.thehindu.com/features/kids/Visitors-from-far-away/article14024607.ece

It was a beautiful morning at Vedanthangal, the bird sanctuary.Mamma Gilli, the parrot was trying to teach her baby parrot to fly. Suddenly, a flock of birds were seen landing on the lake. The baby parrot was surprised to see the colourful birds, and wanted to know who they were. Mamma Gilli explained that they were guest birds who had flown there from faraway lands to escape from the extreme cold weather.The baby parrot wanted to learn more about the guests. So, she went to the mini islands in the lake, to meet them. She introduced herself saying “Welcome home, I am Chellakili, the parrot. I would like to know more about you.” The guests came forward one by one and told her their names.Painted Stork said, “We have flown from Siberia.”“And we have come from Australia,” said Grey Pelican.From all overSoon, other birds too noticed the new birds and came over to get to know them. They decided to have a big party. It was, agreed that the birds would show their special skill. The best would be declared the winner.To begin with, the birds were required to demonstrate their nest building skill. The Weaver Bird wove a nest with fibres, grass and twigs. The Tailor Bird sewed the leaves together. The Spoon Bill from Austria built a nest with gathered sticks.The Painted Stork made every one laugh when she told them about the naughty penguins. “The hard working penguins would make the nests, and the naughty, lazy penguins would steal the pebbles and run away!” And then she tried to show them how they would run away. The birds laughed, but had to stop when the stork raised a wing to silence them. “But they never fought with each other!” she said.The next event was catching the fish from the river. Many birds showed their ability to catch fish by swooping on to the river from a height and came out with fish. However, the Ibises Spoon Bill surprised everyone. She used her wing to direct the fish forward to her open beak.All the birds had great fun, until it came to decide who would be the winner. The birds looked at each other, but no one knew the right answer until the baby parrot finally spoke up.“I know what to do. Remember the stork told us about the penguins and how they never fight. Like them, we will not debate on who should be the winner. Let’s accept that each one of us has our own special abilities.” All the birds chirped and flapped their wings in support.The birds lived together happily until it was time to bid goodbye. Before they left, they invited Chellakili, her family and the other birds to visit their homeland. Then, one by one, the flock of birds took off to the skies and flew back home.Game: Birds on the wireCheck out the slideshow and try your hand at the game we have for you