http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Visakhapatnam/Visually-challenged-girls-steal-the-show/article13982456.ece

Exuding confidence and presenting perfect synchronisation, a group of visually-challenged girls swayed to a filmy number. This impressive dance performance was followed by an awe-inspiring song that held the audience in rapt attention.The venue was soaked in the carnival spirit as the visually-impaired persons from across Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram districts took part in the State-level celebrations of Louis Braille’s 207{+t}{+h}birth anniversary at Dr. Ambedkar Assembly Hall, Andhra University on Monday.Role modelThe forum provided an opportunity for the visually-challenged to share their challenges and achievements. “My ambition is to become a weightlifting champion and be a role model to others. Physical impediment can never stop anybody from scaling heights if one is determined to achieve what they want to,” says M. Satyavathi, a Class VIII student, who was selected in the national-level weightlifting championship in 2014.HRD Minister Ganta Srinivasa Rao, who attended the celebrations along with Minister for Women and Child Welfare and Mining Peethala Sujatha, Collector N. Yuvaraj and Director of Department for Welfare of Differently-abled and Senior Citizens K. Sarada Devi, among others, announced that a cricket association for the visually-challenged will be formed and a tournament will be held shortly in the port city.“I hope the Minister will also include girls in the upcoming cricket tournament as many are interested in showcasing their expertise in playing cricket,” says Tulasi, a student of Government Residential School for Visually Challenged Girls.After bagging Louis Braille Award – 2016, visually-challenged Professor of Sociology, Hyderabad Central University N. Annavaram said: “Teaching is my passion. Initially, it was little challenging for me to follow chalk and board concept. However, most of my classes these days include PowerPoint presentation which is quite convenient for people like us.”Adding value to the carnival, a few NGO representatives have put up stalls at the venue displaying smart aids such as talking digital pocket daisy player consisting of eBook reader, MP3 player and radio cum voice recorder, chargeable smart stick that senses obstacles, Braille chess and typewriter.A calendar published by Braille Press, Bapatla was unveiled. Laptops and study material were distributed to those who excelled in their academics.