http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/entertainment/Vital-statistics/article13988391.ece

Throughout the year, you spend time, money and energy on health, fitness and aesthetics. Did your efforts pay off? Was last year healthy for you? You may or may not have reached the numbers you wanted to, but here are four questions that will tell you the real story.How much body weight did you gain in 2015?Most of us are so focussed on losing weight that we can sometimes lose sight of the plot and end up gaining some pounds in the year. The lower the number the better. Zero is great. If you actually ended up losing weight this year, that’s plain awesome.How many times did you fall sick in a year?We talk about nutrition and training when we discuss fitness. But fitness isn’t worth much without good health. And the less often you fall sick, the healthier you are. Falling sick can be because of many reasons, but irrespective of why, it is a sign of immunity breach.Think of immunity as an invisible shield surrounding you. You have germs and infections trying to get you every microsecond of the day and it is this shield that keeps you safe. You fall sick when this shield is compromised and this affects your system.And what promotes immunity? A combination of factors: how well you eat, move, sleep and smile.In other words, if your nutrition, activity, sleep and stress levels were where they needed to be, your immunity levels would have been up and the number of times you had fallen sick would have been down.How many times did you hurt yourself in the last year?Fitness is first and foremost about staying away from injury. You can be a professional athlete or an everyday parent. Irrespective of how you look or how far you can run or how much weight you can throw around, you need to stay injury-free. Hurting yourself when picking up something from the floor, straining the same muscles often, suffering from random aches on one or more of your joints, a condition that doesn’t improve, are signs that you are not taking care of yourself. You are either not doing enough activity and hence are weak, resulting in hurting yourself often; or you are overdoing the fitness bit and are doing more harm than good to your body.How many pills do you pop every day?No, this is not an “old people thing”. Not anymore. Too many of us swallow too many pills for our own good. Some of us consume over-the-counter medication for headaches, acidity, digestive issues and allergies, while some of us take pills to tackle larger issues like diabetes, anxiety, insomnia, hypertension, hyper/hypo thyroid and high cholesterol. But the truth is that most lifestyle diseases can be controlled without chronic pill consumption.While medicines, vaccines, tests and treatments are a necessary part of healthy living today, they need to be used smartly.Going on an antibiotic course for a simple cold and fever is not smart, but neither is adamantly staying away from treatment in spite of consistent high fever. Being smart is making sure your everyday life doesn’t hinge on pills, doctors and hospitals, but using them when necessary.So, what is your number? A total less than four is a sign of a good year. If you got four zeros, you can rest assured that your 2015 was excellent from a health perspective. If not, 2016 offers you a great chance for you to work towards those zeros.(The author is a fitness and nutrition expert and entrepreneur)