http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Voctronica%E2%80%99s-vocal-love-for-Rahman/article13986452.ece

The Mumbai-based A Capella (without music accompaniment) band Voctronica, in celebrating composer A R Rahman’s 50 birthday, did something that every music lover would unabashedly cherish.The five-member team comprising Avinash Tewari, Raj Verma (from Hyderabad), Arjun Nair, Warsha Easwar and Clyde Rodrigues performed a medley on the best works of the Mozart of Madras in a chronological order in Tamil and Hindi languages. While one hummed, another sang, and the others did the beat-boxing. The coordination worked like a dream.The nearly five-minute long video rings in nostalgia, capturing the musical journey of the man since his Roja, Bombay days.Picking the best of the lot was nothing short of a challenge, says Arjun. “He became an international icon, the moment he won the Academy Award, but every Rahman fan would agree that they’ve grown up more with the music he’d composed before that. Our choices were nostalgic and yet relevant to the times. Accepting it, we had to come out of our biases to select works that best reflected his quality.”For instance, their personal favourite was the title track of Dil Se, they felt ‘Satrangi’ was the better fit in the video.Some of the compilations are so meticulous that the vocals of the ‘Rang De Basanti’ track is complemented by Swades’ theme score in the background besides the subtle-humming of the ‘Dum Dara Mast Mast’ track from Guru.The length was also something they had to keep track of, given the shorter attention span of the current generation. Though they got the idea of making this video six months ago, but it was only from a couple of months that they approached it with more seriousness.They claim to be India’s first vocal-only band although their uniqueness lies in blending A Capella (popular across north-east regions too) and beat-boxing like never before.The success of the medley has definitely made them take video-production seriously, in addition to their live performances across the country including Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi and Goa.Even the clichéd statement ‘we go wherever our music takes us’ comes across as a sincere one when they say so. “That this tribute has expanded our horizons is the cherry on the cake, for the identity that we’ve been striving to build since a year or two. In the several years of music that we’ve done, we’re innocently proud of the work,” Avinash confesses. Music binds them together and their chemistry feels more organic as they don’t spend time in carrying heavy instruments from venue to venue. For the future, they have a plan to make more original music, enjoy their personal expression better and cater to the niche audience loyally.