http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Voice-of-a-Kashmiri/article13999491.ece

Ramendra Kumar has often heard tales of Kashmir and when he got a chance to visit and stay in Bukhara for 10 days, he was filled with anguish. “I had gone there as a tourist for the Children’s Literature Festival and got an opportunity to interact with the common people – shikari, guide and the professor to get their perspective. Almost every second house has a tale of torture. I do not want to romanticise it; I am saying does the nation deserve this kind of pain?” he asks. In Hyderabad for the launch of his book And the Jhelum Flows at Gallery Café on Wednesday, Ramendra Kumar speaks about the extreme viewpoints he heard during the course of his book “There are polarised views on Kashmir; most people think that Kashmiris are terrorists or support terrorism. And, Kashmiris say they just want peace. They feel ‘Hindustan, the Indian government has failed them. When India and Pakistan became independent, Kashmir became ghulam.’ It is attributed to India because feel the Indian government is more responsible for the state of affairs and they feel betrayed.”The book is a crowd funded book. He explains, “I sent it to a couple of publishers, who wanted me to censor it and wanted me to add a touch of Yash Chopra. I was unwilling to compromise and decided to go for crowd funding and do it on my own.”But there are so many books on Kashmir, how will this be different? “Most people who have written about Kashmir are Kashmiris. Whatever I have read are inward views. Otherwise, there have been political analyses. The voice of the average Kashmiri comes out in this book from a person who is an outsider; that makes it different.”Ramendra heads the PR department in the Rourkela Steel Plant and became a storyteller to his two children which eventually led him to discover his writing skills. “I am a great egoist. I thought, ‘Why should I tell someone else’s story. Let me tell my own story.’ Both my children were poles apart. While my daughter wanted the fairytale stuff, my son would latch on to anything heroic and action. Combining the two was a real challenge but I managed to do it. Those were the best days of my life,” he recalls.With a few children’s books, a book on parenting and diabetes to his credit, Ramendra is a motivational speaker too. Born and brought up in Hyderabad, Ramendra believes, writing in different genres helps him get a new approach. “How do you fight the demon of writer’s block? This is the way I do; when writing in one genre leaves me bored, I shift to another genre. It’s a great challenge and an exciting exercise to write across genres.”Currently, he is working on a children’s book. “I am writing on a feisty, 65-year-old woman for a book titled A Naani called Tsunami. It is a humorous take on a naani who is gutsy, fun to be with and who teaches that age is just a number.”Ramendra is a storyteller too. “Storytelling involves a lot of action and gives a direct connect. I like the energy; there is dancing, singing and jumping and I experience joy during those moments. It is absolute bliss to be a storyteller.”