http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/music/Waiting-for-that-one-song/article14012144.ece

With so many talent hunts on television, it keeps giving us new heroes and heroines; boys and girls who seem destined to rule the roost in the coming years. Many of them though fade away from the public memory once the competition is over. Some of them do go on to carve out their own niche in the film and television industry. Among them is young Ananya Sritam Nanda, the winner of Indian Idol Junior. She was in the Capital recently as part of an event organised by Yamaha Motors. Though the event, Yamaha seeks to inculcate values of safe driving among children with the NGO Nirmal Chhaya. Yamaha celebrated their mascot Zippy's second birthday on the occasion even as Ananya interacted with the media:Excerpts from the chat:It is learnt that you were initially knocked out of the Indian Idol. Is it true?Yes, I participated in the first season of “Indian Idol” last year but unfortunately got eliminated at an early stage. It was unexpected but a learning experience for me.Then you were successful in the next season of “Indian Idol” defying heavy odds. How did it happen?My elimination did not dishearten me. Instead it gave me more confidence. I practised even harder with the aim of proving myself. Started well with the auditions then the theatre and gala rounds. This time the competition was tougher as we had international contestants too. I must say, hard work and my dedication paid off.Are your fans from “Indian Idol” days going to hear you as a playback singer soon?I want to be a playback singer. I got some offers from our Odiya film industry which I have refused as right now I am concentrating more on my studies. As and when I get a good offer from Bollywood I will definitely grab it. I want to make sure that I have a sound academic grooming before that.You talk of entering Bollywood but isn’t there tough competition with a new generation having stepped in?Yes, the competition is tough but it is so everywhere, not only Bollywood. You have to prove yourself and I am sure if I get one good song than there will be no stopping. All I am waiting for is that one song.In the days gone by every singer used to be associated with an actor. Given a chance whom would you like to sing for?Yes, there were some singers who sang for a few select actors but these days it is not the case. But I have my favourite actresses like Sonakshi Sinha, Deepika Padukone and Anushka Sharma and I would like to do playback singing for them.Here I must also add that Shreya Ghoshal and Arijit Singh are my idols as they have also taken the same route to success. I am following in their footsteps. I would love to do some songs with them.