http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/Warned-of-scam-Maharashtra-to-decentralise-rice-procurement/article13984329.ece

Faced with warnings from its officials on a possible foodgrain scam in the state, the Maharashtra government on Tuesday moved to majorly decentralise its procurement mechanism. A decision was taken to directly procure paddy and rice from farmers and sell to state fair price shops, leaving out millers and the Food Corporation of India (FCI) from the procurement chain.This has been done by adopting the Centre’s scheme of Decentralised Procurement (DCP) of foodgrain, first introduced in 1997-98, for efficiency in procurement and Public Distribution System (PDS). But not all States had switched to it.A finance department report forwarded to the State Food and Civil Supplies Department last month had pointed out ‘major lapses’ in Maharashtra’s paddy and rice procurement and warned that a rice scam like the one that occurred in Bihar, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh was in the making if the millers and the FCI were kept part of the chain any longer. All three States have still kept FCI as part of the procurement chain.Senior officials of the State finance department told The Hindu that a report has been pending approval. The report points out ‘procedural lapses’ in the existing process, in which paddy procured by the State is sent to a rice mill and the rice is stored in the FCI godowns and later supplied to the PDS shops.“The miller was dependent on FCI for verification while he himself was supplying poor quality to pass the verification scrutiny. We had strongly recommended the procedural lapses be corrected earliest,” said an official.The State cabinet approved the DPS on Tuesday allowing the State to directly procure paddy and rice from farmers to meet the need of PDS and fair price shops. The scheme will be implemented from March 1, and the responsibility of rolling out the scheme has been left to the State Adivasi Vikas Mahamandal and the State Marketing Federation, and monitoring will be done by district authorities.Under the DCP scheme, the States undertake the responsibility to procure foodgrain, store it scientifically and distribute it through Targeted Public Distribution System.Currently, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Uttarakhand, Andaman & Nicobar Islands, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Kerala are procuring rice under the decentralised procurement scheme. Due to the decentralised process there has been an increase in procurement of rice in these States, the data shows. “The finance department’s suggestion has been included in report of the food and civic supplies departments. We have considered those points,” reads the note of the cabinet.