http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Water-crisis-looms-over-Guntur/article14026329.ece

The city is staring at a severe water crisis this summer, with water levels continuing to plummet in Prakasam Barrage, the major raw water source. With the onset of summer, the Guntur Municipal Corporation (GMC) is bracing to tackle the situation. The current level at the barrage is 9.7 feet, but it could go down further in the coming days, with water release from Nagarjuna Sagar coming to an end.The city normally draws water from the Guntur Channel, and in summer, it draws water from the Prakasam Barrage through a 30-year-old pipeline through Mangalagiri, from which water is pumped to feed the 90 MLD filtration plant at Takkelapadu. Another 27 MLD is drawn from the summer storage tank at Sangam Jagarlamudi and 4 MLD from the Vengalayapalem reservoir.But, the low water levels at the barrage means that the filtration plant can draw only 65-70 MLD and another 12-15 MLD from Sangamjagarlamudi, just sufficient to meet the needs of people. The GMC is also considering a water scheme for Tenali by drawing another 10-15 MLD.Faced with the possibility of an acute shortage of water, Municipal Commissioner S. Nagalakshmi has proposed that the government take steps to pump water directly into the Guntur supply channel from the river at Undavalli.The scheme, costing Rs. 6.9 crore, is awaiting nod from Finance and Municipal Administration departments.“For now, we are in a comfortable position, and each household gets 135 LPCD. But, we are advising residents to use water judiciously in view of the summer. If we go ahead with the plan to pump water, we can meet shortage even during summer,” Ms. Nagalakshmi said.With the rapid growth of extension colonies on all sides of the city putting enormous pressure on the water supply front, the GMC has also begun expediting works on comprehensive water scheme funded by the World Bank. The scheme envisages 24 X 7 water supply to Guntur and neighbouring villages.GMC submits plans for a new pumping scheme costing Rs. 6.9 crore