http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Water-vending-machines-buggies-for-Mysuru-railway-station/article14020548.ece

A slew of new facilities, including two IRCTC-operated purified drinking water vending machines, were inaugurated at the Mysuru station on Monday. Also, two battery-operated buggies for inter-platform transfer were dedicated to the passengers.Launching the new facilities, Mysuru MP Pratap Simha said it was part of the continuous efforts by the Union government to make train travel passenger-friendly. The two buggies were procured using the MPLAD funds at a cost of Rs.10 lakh, he said and added that it would of a great help to senior citizens, physically-challenged or the sick passengers.The drinking water facility installed at the station will provide passengers pure water at an affordable price. The IRCTC has installed two such machines and two more machines would be installed in due course. A 300 ml refill will cost Rs.1, while it will be available in a container at Rs.2. Similarly, a 500 ml refill will cost Rs.3 and in a container Rs.5. Also, a one litre bottle can be refilled for Rs.5 while it can be purchased in a container for Rs.8. The cost for a 2 litre refill is Rs. 8 (Rs. 12 in a container) and 5 litre refill will cost Rs.20 (Rs. 25 in a container).An IRCTC release stated that 1,500 such machines are being installed at various stations in the country of which 148 are in the South Western Railway jurisdiction.Besides, a currency-operated automatic ticket vending machine was inaugurated. This will obviate the need to buy smart cards and the need to stand in lengthy queue, said Rajkumar Lal, Divisional Railway Manager.On the proposed development of Kadakola as a second terminal, he said it will cost Rs.67 crore and will have two stabling lines, two pit lines, one shunting neck, six platform lines and watering and cleaning facilities. Two new services have been proposed for inclusion in the forthcoming budget to decongest Chamundi Express. In view of the saturation of the station at Bengaluru City Station, the authorities say train services may be between Mysuru and Kengeri on completion of the track doubling work which will augment line capacity for more services on the stretch.