http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Water-released-from-Varahi-distributory/article13992920.ece

While most farmers are happy after the release of water from distributory number one of the Varahi Left Bank Canal (VLBC) of Varahi Irrigation Project for summer season for irrigation purposes, some said that field channels had got blocked due to accumulation of soil.The water from the distributory gets released to the field channels to irrigate the fields. Some other farmers said that water from the distributory did not reach fields on the uplands.Mallika Naik, who grows arecanut, coconuts and vegetables on 40 cents of land, said that the water was being released from the distributory to the field channels for the last two days. This had helped irrigate her fields in the low-lands. But she still had to depend on her pumpset to pump water from the nearby Halady rivulet to water her fields on the upland, she said.Vishalakshi Naik, a resident, said that the release of water from the distributory was providing irrigation to the fields of about 40 farmers living in Kallunje village in Shankarnarayana Gram Panchayat. “The water is flowing smoothly in the field channels on my agricultural land for the last two days,” she said.Another farmer Chandu Naik was sore about the soil being dumped on a portion of his field during the construction work of the distributory. “Due to reckless dumping, I cannot use a small portion of my field. But water has been flowing to field channels in my fields,” he said.However, Sanjeeva, who cultivates arecanut and coconuts on five acres of five acres of land, said that the flow of water into the field channels had got blocked some places due to accumulation of soil. This might pose a problem, he said. But Shiva Mogaveera, who cultivates paddy and arecanut on his 2.65 acres of land, said that in some places field channels had got blocked due to accumulation of soil during construction of roads and for other reasons. “The farmers should put in their efforts and remove the soil blockages in the field channels. We cannot expect the government to come and do everything. Water is flowing in channels. Is that not great?” he said.