http://www.thehindu.com/features/downtown/Water-management-begins-at-home/article14016011.ece

Homemaker Sarala just needs a bucket to draw water from her well at Kamaraj Nagar. Thanks to the heavy rains, the water level has gone up considerably.“Never before have I see water in a well, so close at hand,” says the 25-year-old homemaker who uses the well water sparingly. She does not have a borewell at home. On alternate days, she fills her tank with the water supplied by Metrowater. Residents who have a well-maintained rainwater harvesting system or an open well have benefitetd form the heavy monsoon.As per the data given by the Chennai Metrowater, the water level in many areas has gone up by 6 meters to 8 metres this month.In Anna Nagar (west), the water table from the ground improved by 5.10 metres. Initiatives taken by individuals/ residents associations have helped recharge the groundwater level.At Jeevan Bima Nagar, Anna Nagar (western extension), a residential community with 900 flats, the yearly expenditure on water bills has reduced significantly in the last few years.“In the traditional RWH structure, water from the terrace is collected in the well and this helps recharge groundwater table. Three years ago, we changed the design so that rainwater is sent to the borewell. This ensured that 100 per cent of the water is of use to residents,” says S. Natesan, advisor to Jeevan Bima Residents Welfare Association. “Previously, the water was yellow in colour. Now, after the rains, it is crystal clear,” he says.Anna Nagar Western Extension (Phase II) Residents Welfare Association is planning to channel the water from the driveway on their streets to prevent water logging as well as to recharge the water table.M. Karmegam, former director, Centre for Water Resources and a resident of Anna Nagar, feels Metrowater must conduct a study of the water tables in various areas a little later.“In places like Anna Nagar, which has clayey soil, penetration is slow,” he says.Penetration of water also depends on the type of soil and the population in a locality. In thickly populated areas, there is less space for water to percolate into the soil, say experts. Those living close to a waterbody also experience better groundwater recharge.