http://www.thehindu.com/sport/Wawrinka-completes-a-Chennai-three-peat/article13992542.ece

Stan Wawrinka isn’t to be trifled with in Chennai.When a man thinks little of taking the driver’s seat of an auto-rickshaw — that abode of the fearsome in this city — and does it with a mildly disturbing gleam in the eye, he is best given a wide berth.Borna Coric, however, looked eager to cross him. The 19-year-old Croat has the air of someone who’ll willingly approach a beehive with a stick. He looks a natural competitor, unafraid of a little pain if there’s the chance of a little pleasure — so this wasn’t a challenge he will have shrunk from.But defeating Wawrinka here on Stadium Court is among the most forbidding challenges on the Tour’s 250 series. So while Coric did his utmost, often playing at the very edge of his developing game, it wasn’t enough to snap either of Wawrinka’s streaks: 12 successive wins or 24 straight sets.Sunday’s 6-3, 7-5 victory was the culmination of the three-peat, also the Swiss World No.4’s fourth Chennai Open title overall.Coric started his first ATP World Tour final with a slight disadvantage. He had spent a full six hours and 15 minutes more than Wawrinka on court this week — not ideal for a match he would spend a lot of time chasing.But despite being on the end of a lot of unequal rallies, he never stopped trying. Often he could do no more than hang in; but the moment he had the slightest opportunity, he made the fearless choice. He took the ball earlier and went closer to the lines.Unfortunately for him, the Wawrinka serve gave him nothing. From a simple, efficient action — no wasted motion, little torquing of the body, everything directed first up and then towards the target — Wawrinka calmly won himself easy points.Coric had five chances in the seventh game to break back; he was rocked by four stiff first serves. The one second-serve he had a look at, Wawrinka cold-cocked a winner, forehand inside-out.It was the sort of point-ending power Coric was frequently faced with: 15 aces, including four in the opening game alone, a majority of them in excess of 200 kmph; forehands that Wawrinka seemed to increase the pace of as if by flicking a switch; backhands that surely can’t be cracked this hard single-handed.Indeed, the backhand was where Coric tried to direct some traffic — but this contained Wawrinka only when the Croat managed incredible depth and weight and forced the slice. That he always followed this to the net to try and knock the volley off spoke of Coric’s game-sense.But often Wawrinka changed a rally’s entire rhythm by waiting just that extra instant on his backhand: his body-shape made the stroke near impossible to read from the wind-back; he also then held it, delaying contact till Coric committed, even if only slightly, to one side.The full range of Wawrinka’s single-handed backhand was shown off in the second set’s 11th game, in which Coric was broken for the final time: there were glorious cross-court and down-the-line winners, but also depth-seekers that bullied the teenager into giving up court-space.Wawrinka was masterful at the net: he has fine touch, but just as importantly, a lot of his work is done by the time he hits the volley; his approach strokes often set it up just right.Given the strength of his serve and ground-strokes, the command of the net made Wawrinka despairingly difficult to play on Sunday.As Coric later conceded, he was just too good. But to the World No. 44’s credit, he had mined every last seam of his ingenuity to find a way.The results:Final: 1-Stan Wawrinka (Sui) bt 8-Borna Coric (Cro) 6-3, 7-5. Doubles: 3-Oliver Marach (Aut) & Fabrice Martin (Fra) bt Austin Krajicek (USA) & Benoit Paire (Fra) 6-3, 7-5.