http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/news/We-are-not-robbing-plots-Uddhav-tells-CM/article14004091.ece

he row over open space policy cleared by the Shiv Sena-BJP led Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has turned into yet another battle between the two parties.Taking alliance partner BJP head-on for first supporting the policy and later changing its stance, Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said the policy does not have the provision of grabbing empty plots like the Centre’s Land Acquisition Act.Reminding the BJP that it was his party that had opposed the Act since it would have deprived poor farmers of their land and benefited wealthy businessmen, Mr Thackeray said, “Our policy is unlike the Centre’s Act. That Act was thrown in the dustbin because we opposed it.”Mr Thackeray questioned the BJP’s lack of consistency about the policy. “This is not the Sena’s policy. It was passed after support from BJP and allies. The way politics is being played on this is absolutely depressing,” he said. The Sena chief was speaking after launching a project for widening of the subway at Pump House in Andheri (East).Two days after extending support to the Sena in the BMC to pass the open space policy, the BJP did a turnaround after facing a criticism from citizens, only to appeal to Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis to stay the policy. Ameet Satam, BJP’s MLA from Mumbai wrote to Mr Fadnavis, to not go ahead with the policy. The CM then ordered a review of the policy, cornering the Sena.The open space policy allows the civic administrations to handover playgrounds and recreational grounds in the city to private players for maintenance. Mumbai has about 1068 playgrounds and recreational grounds, covering over 1,200 acre.The sudden U-turn had left Sena leaders fuming. It was seen as the BJP’s attempt to divert the public anger over the policy to the Sena, ahead of the 2017 civic polls. Mr Thackeray’s outburst on Sunday is seen as Sena’s answer to BJP tactics.Ridiculing the CM’s decision, he said the policy is prepared by the commissioner of the civic body. “Despite we being in power in the BMC, we do not make appointments at the commissioner’s post. We don’t support the policy, but hold up the rights of the citizens of this city. Therefore, we will not let any structures come up on the grounds,” he added.Clarifying that the Sena will not allow building structures on recreational grounds or playgrounds, he said he has asked the commissioner to deny permissions to build structures at 15% of the land. “The civic body will remain the owner of the plot. Open grounds will remain for people. But what about that 225 acre of Mahalaxmi racecourse land? Why does nobody speak about it? Shouldn’t it be open for all?” he asked.