http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Weaver-families-at-a-crossroads-in-Palakkad/article13998829.ece

About two years have gone since the rhythmic clicks of traditional looms of Neelikkad village have stopped reverberating forever. It was a weavers’ village with 78 families engaged in making handloom products. With the new generation distancing itself from the job, the village has no one engaged in the traditional profession now. Neelikkad’s last weaver, A. Ramakrishnan, breathed his last on February 24, 2014.This is not the case of Neelikkad alone. Accumulating losses and the lack of opportunities for diversification are preventing people of Palakkad’s other weaving villages like Karimpuzha, Kallanchira, Chittoor, Devangapuram and Kollangode from continue with the tradition. With the youth preferring to move out of the profession, most weaver families are at a crossroads now.Talking to The Hindu , Ramakrishnan’s wife Thankamma said she too left the profession due to lack of demand from the open market and lack of support from the government. However, she still keeps her husband’s loom as a memorial piece. Their three sons have migrated to Surat in Gujarat to work in the thriving pearl industry there.For several centuries, weavers villages in Palakkad were the major sources of handloom dress material for the rest of Kerala spread in different princely States. After the Independence, the weavers were brought under different cooperative societies and they had a wide marketing network. Buyers from all parts of the country and abroad flocked the villages to buy products ranging from saris to dhotis. However, lack of encouragement from the government and meagre profits forced many to leave the profession forever.“Many of our people have left the profession after getting fed up with the accumulating losses. Even our children found their ways to rebuild their lives. So the weaving tradition came to an end,” laments S. Selvan, a weaver of Karimpuzha, near Mannarkkad.“The returns were meagre. An eight-member family can earn a maximum of Rs.35 a day from collective engagement in weaving. Modern education also prompted many of us to look for other options,” says environmentalist S. Guruvayurappan, who hails from the weaving community of Neelikkad.“At least five helpers are needed to operate a handloom. With little support from the younger generation, my husband had depended on migrant workers from Erode and Tirupur,” says Thankamma.Weaver families in Palakkad facing crisis owing to lack of government support