http://www.thehindu.com/features/kids/Welcome-the-cat/article14019500.ece

Last summer, I went to stay with my grandparents.After dinner, my grandfather and I took a stroll around the complex. It was cool and pleasant. We turned a corner, and to my utter surprise I saw a woman. She stood still, leaning against the wall, under the neem trees. Dressed in a long, shapeless gown, she stood silhouetted against the lamplight from the street. I must have gasped, for my grandfather held my hand.“What was that?” I exclaimed, the minute we were back home.“That woman moved in a couple of months ago. I often see her at night. There’s an old man too… I think it’s her brother. They have two cats or may be three, I am not sure. During the day, you never see her. Sometimes you can hear the brother laughing and shouting. He says strange stuff, ‘You thought you could cheat me out of my house, eh?’, ‘Now I’ve got you nice and stuck. Ha Ha Ha!’, ‘You didn’t count on my magic, did you?’ At other times, you can hear the cats cry out when he kicks them. It’s very strange.”“Gramps, you should call the SPCA if he is ill treating the cats.”“Yes, I should. But I am a bit puzzled. During the day, there are three cats — two are black, but the third is white. But at night, you see only the black ones!”“Gramps, you are a great one for making up stories.”“No, its true!”A visitI decided I would have to check this out for myself. The next morning, I bought some cookies, repacked them and took them around to the flats. I told the people that my grandmother had baked them. Finally, I rang the bell at ‘the’ flat. The old man answered.“Yes, what is it?” he asked rudely.“Sir, I brought you some cookies my grandmother made.”“I don’t want cookies and I don’t like being disturbed.”As he was shutting the door, I saw three cats. Two were black and one was white. The white one had strange eyes. There were almost human. They came rushing to the door, brushing against his legs. He kicked out at the white cat, saying, “Oh no! You are not going anywhere, sister!” The cat went flying into the room, squealing.I was so shocked, I stammered, “You..you…can’t tre…treat you…rrr pets like that! I will report you.”“You will, will you? I will take care of them and you…Don’t interfere with me. Now get out.”When I told my grandfather about this, he was angry.“I don’t want you going there. It is not safe. There are things happening there that are beyond our comprehension. You have to take my word for it. For, what I have seen is beyond belief.”I had never seen him so agitated and I promised him I would keep out of mischief.That night, once again, we went for a walk after dinner. This time, I was primed up to see the strange lady. So, when I turned the corner and saw her at her usual spot I was not startled. Being prepared, I looked directly at her face. I felt a chill run down my body, and I froze. I could not take my eyes off her. She had the strangest eyes…white, and cat like and then she smiled and I remembered the face of the cat I had seen in the morning.I do not know how I got home. Sleep was evasive. I must have dozed off finally for I woke up the sound of mewing outside my window. It was the white cat. It looked at me and smiled and then bared its teeth and mewed, but it sounded vile and scary. I was so afraid, I slowly got off the bed and backed out of the room. After breakfast, I went downstairs to join the other kids in a game of cricket. It was my turn to bat. I watched the ball intently and just as I was about to make contact with my bat, I was distracted by a white image on the wall. It was the cat again. Through the day the cat was always within my sight. I was being stalked…by a cat!That night, when gramps and I went for our walk, I asked him to change the route so that we wouldn’t bump into the ‘cat lady’. When we returned, we found her standing by our front door, smiling and waiting…