http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/op-ed/What-the-Patel-rap-says-about-America/article14007113.ece

A February 2014 case that riveted India and sent alarm bells ringing amongst the guardians of bilateral harmony in Washington reached a disturbing conclusion in the past week. Eric Parker, former police officer in Madison, Alabama, was acquitted in the civil rights >case brought against him by Sureshbhai Patel, following a violent attack on the elderly Indian national that resulted in facial injuries, extensive vertebral damage and permanent paralysis. Mr. Patel, who was 57 years old at the time and visiting his son Chirag to help with care for his newborn grandson, spoke little English but managed to utter “India” three times and say “No English” five times, despite which Mr. Parker, as seen in the dash-cam of his police car, threw him judo-style to the ground during a pat-down.The stunning legal setback for the Patel family came after two previous trials ended in hung juries, notwithstanding the fact that the first trial ended with a jury split along race and gender where 10 white males had urged for Mr. Parker’s acquittal and two African-American female jurors pushed for a verdict of guilt. Throwing the case out, U.S. District Judge Madeline Haikala said in a 92-page opinion that the prosecution did not eliminate reasonable doubt that Mr. Parker was guilty of a crime and “the government has had two full and fair chances to obtain a conviction; it will not have another.”While Mr. Parker has escaped the possibility of facing a 10-year prison sentence in the event that he had been found guilty, Mr. Patel will have to live with his injuries — according to reports, he is expected never to fully recover movement in his arms and legs despite undergoing surgery to fuse two of his vertebrae.In some ways the cards had been stacked against Mr. Patel from the very beginning.As The Hindu reported, >the City of Madison moved quickly to fire Mr. Parker from the force after the incident, and this made it conveniently untenable for Mr. Patel to sue the city on individual counts or get the police department to cough up $1,00,000 that they may have otherwise had to pay against successful tort claims.The world isn’t flatSetting aside this dimension and the diplomatic kerfuffle that the incident caused, including a sharp reaction from India’s Ministry of External Affairs about the use of “excessive force” by U.S. police, this case tell us something about ugly, commingled, trends in police brutality and racism that have overtaken American law enforcement.Let us consider each in turn.Some of the statements made by Judge Haikala offer a startling insight into the core tenets of U.S. law enforcement, which create the perfect trigger for the use of excessive force. She wrote that while officers know that when a person says he doesn’t understand English, he may have a problem communicating, “police do not assume that a subject who states that he does not speak English (or experiences some other difficulty communicating) is telling the truth.” Mr. Parker’s defence appears to have injected this point into the case with a purpose; his attorney argued earlier, “When you come to the U.S. we expect you to follow our laws and speak our language. Mr. Patel bears as much responsibility for this as anyone.”Can this really be the norm? If it is, then every U.S. visitor from India had better beware, for if their English is less than perfect, or if their accent alters the pronunciation of a critical word from what a Midwestern state police officer is accustomed to, their tranquil walk down a leafy suburb could end in a hail of gunfire or broken bones.An examination of the record of police excess against unarmed individuals hints at a distinct racist element that leads to the targeting of ethnic minorities, which is the second point that bears consideration. For example, a study by The Guardian last year found that despite making up only two per cent of the total population, African-American males between the ages of 15 and 34 comprised more than 15 per cent of all deaths logged in 2015, which is five times higher than for white men of the same age.Lest this create a sense of complacency among other ethnic minorities, it should be noted that Indians, even when enjoying a high profile, have not been spared the periodic unwanted police attention.Targeting IndiansMost famous among recent cases is that of >Devyani Khobragade, whose diplomatic credentials as Deputy Consul could not save her from an invasive “cavity” strip-search while in U.S. Marshals’ custody. Even Indian Ambassadors have not been spared; in December 2010 the then Indian Ambassador to the U.S., Meera Shankar, was pulled out of a passenger security line and subjected to a pat-down at Jackson-Evers International Airport in Mississippi, fomenting anger in New Delhi. Similarly, in February 2011, >Krittika Biswas, daughter of the Indian Vice-Consul in New York, was handcuffed publicly in her school, wrongfully arrested and detained with criminals overnight on allegations that she had sent obscene e-mails to a teacher, allegations that were ultimately proven false. Another notable case was of Vijay Kumar, an Indian filmmaker, who in 2010 was jailed for 20 days after he was arrested in Houston International Airport for carrying “jihadi literature” in his baggage even though, ironically, the material was intended for a lecture he was set to deliver to the Hindu Congress of America on an interfaith discussion between Hindus and Muslims.These, and many more stories that may not have found their way into national or international news spotlights, reflect the sordid ground reality in the U.S. that police officers’ use of force, deadly or otherwise, against minorities, is considered an acceptable practice in the broader culture, and even the justice system tends to handle prosecutions softly.narayan@thehindu.co.in