http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/When-a-home-is-more-than-just-brick-and-mortar/article13989663.ece

The Hindu PropertyPlus, in association with State Bank of India (SBI) and Indian Institute of Interior Designers (IIID Kerala Chapter) is organising a contest titled ‘My Home, Sweet Home’ contest for house/apartment owners in Kerala. The contest is open two categories, Best Individual House and Best Apartment Interiors. Architects/designers/engineers can also send entries for their clients in case property owners are unable to send it. They will be extended a special honour while owners of house and apartments will be awarded prizes as follows. Winner: Citation with medal plus Rs.1 lakh-worth Indroyal furniture of choice for both individual house and apartment owners.Firstrunner up: Citation with medal plus Rs. 50,000-worth Indroyal furniture of choice for both individual house and apartment owners.Second runner up: Citation with medal for both individual house and apartment owners.Special Honour: Citation with medal for the respective architect/designer/engineer of the winning entry of house and apartment categories.How to apply?Just click and send maximum eight photographs of the interiors of your house/apartment capturing the living, dining, bedroom, toilets, kitchen area, etc and email to us. For the house category, two photographs may be sent of the exteriors, including the landscaped garden.Entries (photographs) are to be sent with your full address and contact details to girish.kr@ thehindu.co.in. In case you can arrange hard copies of photographs, which is preferable, please post/courier to Senior Regional General Manager (Advt Kerala), The Hindu Daily, Vallakkadavu P.O. Thiruvananthapuram 695008. Entries will be judged on the basis of design and innovation. No restriction on the age of house/apartment, cost, area and material used. No entry fee.Shortlisted entries will be subjected to on-the-spot verification by jury panel for which the owners have to make the property available on a mutually agreed date. Winners will be notified immediately and prize distribution ceremony will follow shortly. Staff of The Hindu , State Bank of India and members of judgment panel and other sponsors, are not eligible to participate. In case of any queries, please call Girish/Sreekesh @ 0471-2502001 during office hours.State Bank of India, the premier bank of the country is the presenting sponsor for the contest.Hansgrohe, a global player in the sanitation industry is the home solution partner. College of Architecture (CAT), a prime institution based Thiruvanathapuram, is the evaluation partner of the contest. Indroyal Home spaces, a premier company in the furniture segment, is the gift sponsor for the event.