http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/When-startups-fail-to-deliver/article13986447.ece

The problems for hyper local delivery startups in India seem to be piling up, with grocery firm Grofers becoming the latest to announce the scaling down of its operations.The Gurgaon-based company has said it will no longer deliver in nine cities: Bhopal, Bhubaneswar, Coimbatore, Kochi, Ludhiana, Mysuru, Nashik, Rajkot and Visakhapatnam. The news comes after Varun Khurana, chief technology officer of Grofers India, resigned recently, barely after it raised $120 million in funding from Japan’s SoftBank Corp., Russian entrepreneur and venture capitalist Yuri Milner, and existing investors Tiger Global and Sequoia Capital in November.Grofers has reportedly said smaller cities are not ready for hyper local business and its marketing efforts had not brought in the expected volumes. Towards the end of last year, Foodpanda India, the local unit of Rocket Internet-backed food ordering firm Foodpanda, laid off more than 300 employees, accounting for 15 per cent of its workforce. Last year also saw troubles brewing at food delivery startup TinyOwl, which fired 100 employees, and Zomato sacking 300 employees mainly at its overseas units.So what has gone wrong with hyper local startups, in which private equity investors have poured in millions of dollars? In 2015, there were 26 investments made in delivery startups, totalling $171 million, compared to eight deals totalling $44 million in 2014, according to the data complied by Venture Intelligence, a research service focused on private company financials, transactions, and their valuations in India.Industry experts point out that chasing the same market, lack of differentiation, and high competition forcing deep discounts are making the business model unviable for many.Rohit Bhatiani, director, Deloitte in India, said there are two types of hyper local startups: one focusing on the food ordering app and the other on grocery. “On the food ordering side, the cost of customer acquisition is high and differentiation is less. Because of the high competitive intensity, the players give out more discounts and burn cash. Also the restaurants they have tied up with do not deliver on the promise of what the app stands for, hurting customers’ interest,” he said.On the grocery side, Mr Bhatiani said especially in the branded FMCG side, the margins are wafer thin, with retailers getting just 15 per cent.“What the grocery delivery startup does is you place the order on the app and then they aggregate from the retailer. The problem is the retailer is not ready to share the 2-3 per cent margin with the app guys,” he said.Mr Bhatiani also said grocery delivery is a volume game, because the typical order size would be Rs 200-500 and would work well in a larger city.“Most hyper local firms do the guess work on identifying the problem and think they have the solution. Once they build a business for 18 months, they find monetising is a big problem,” said Rajeev Banduni, CEO, GrowthEnabler, a firm which offers virtual guidance to entrepreneurs, wantepreneurs, and small and medium enterprises.He said these companies decide to sustain losses over three years, with the hope they would be profitable. “Most of these people build a community around Whatsapp and Facebook, but find it difficult to monetise. There would be 1,000s of Grofers which would come up, but only one or two survive,” Mr Banduni said. He also said it is a sign of the ecosystem maturing.According to a survey conducted by GrowthEnabler across 50 private equity firms, the focus in 2016 is pushing startups to centre their focus on profitability across India, the UK, and the US.Mr Banduni said in India, the average age of a startup CEO is 27, compared to 47 in the UK and 37 in the US. “So he would not have enough experience in handling operations. He needs guidance and support,” he added.