http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/When-sugar-turns-sour/article14004467.ece

Next time you reach for that packaged fruit juice that is high on sugar, think again. Getting hooked to it is a recipe for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), because the fructose load proves too much for the organ.Sugar contains both fructose and glucose. Excess fructose gets converted into fat and deposits in the liver. More fructose over the years inflicts more harm — possible cirrhosis. Children aged 8-10 are already showing early symptoms of NAFLD such as liver enlargement, says Head of Paediatric Endocrinology Clinic at the Kozhikode Medical College Hospital M. Vijayakumar. “We see a rise in such cases over the last five years, and these can worsen to NAFLD if not taken off the beverage,” says Dr. Vijayakumar.Paediatric gastroenterologist at Swedish Medical Centre in Seattle, U.S., Uma Pisharody got the fruit juice struck off the menu for patients in her hospital, which became the first to do so in the U.S. “As a paediatric gastroenterologist, the dangers of excessive fructose intake are something I witness on a daily basis, treating kids with NAFLD, the most common cause of chronic liver disease in children,” she told The Hindu over e-mail.“The take-home message for my patients with NAFLD is that the fat in their liver has come from the excessive amount of added sugar (specifically fructose) in their diet.” Dr. Vijayakumar explains that “excess carbohydrate in fructose gets converted into fat and deposits in the liver.Unlike the alcohol-induced FLD, the non-alcoholic version takes some years to worsen. With unchecked, high consumption of sweetened juice, these young NAFLD cases could develop cirrhosis around the age of 40.”“Artificial colouring agents in juice is hepatotoxic (toxic to the liver). In countries where quality control mechanism is lax, excess use of these agents for commercial gains could have a huge public health impact,” he points out.Dr. Uma Pisharody strongly advocates consumption of the whole fruit to benefit from the fibre content. When fructose binds to fibre, the digestion process is different. A major portion of fructose is processed and excreted instead of going directly to the liver, she says.Reporting byK.V. Prasad