http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Where-the-journey-is-more-than-the-destination/article13978861.ece

The recently concluded eighth edition of the Tour of Nilgiris (TfN) was not for the faint-hearted. It was an epic journey of 875 km that was flagged off in Bangalore and ended in Pollachi over the span of a week. The participants covered this entire distance on bicycles.This year, there were a total of 109 riders from 12 different countries. Hundred men and nine women rode day after day, for a week, to travel from Bangalore via Mysuru Madikeri, Sultanbatterym Ooty, Palakkad, Valparai and finally ended in Pollachi. The route included scaling the Sigur Ghats (Kalhatty) and Anaimalai Hills and had a total elevation gain of over 12,000 metres.The youngest participant was 18-year-old Kannan and the oldest 70-year-old Russell. Age was just a number; it had no co-relation to one’s fitness in most cases. For instance, the women’s champion was 54-year-old Belinda from Goa. There were first-timers and seasoned riders who had done the tour before. Riders like Anand, Skandan and Magendran were riding the TfN for the fourth time. This is their annual riding pilgrimage to forge new friendships in the riding community and also to reconnect with old friends. Some of them come back to ride the TfN stronger and finish with a better ranking. Neel from Delhi said, “TfN did me the last time I rode it! This time I am back to do it on my own terms.” There are riders like Hari and Kirtanya from Chennai who have been riding for less than a year and were keen to take on a challenge. Chenthil from Bangalore — originally a part of the TFN team as the official photographer — was riding for the second time this year.A few were riding for charity. Funds were raised for spinal surgery, treatment of eye cancer among young children and child literacy. I rode to raise awareness about women-related cancers.A rider does not just casually show up for the TFN because they think they can do it. For some, the arduous and meticulous training begins a year before the actual tour. A rider is in trouble if he/she has not begun training by August. Despite setbacks during the training, some riders showed up because of their sheer determination and commitment to biking. Ashok from Delhi did not let over 100 days in a hospital due to a viral infection stop him from riding. Brigadier Mohan from Chennai did not allow a cataract surgery or the floods hamper his training and participation.Imagine a hundred-odd people with an affinity for adventure and a passion for riding, spending a week together. The conversations and camaraderie that transpired is unfathomable. Be it a chat on nutrition and fuelling in the buffet queue during breakfast or dinner, a motivating push while struggling to peddle during the mid-day heat, a conversation over a cuppa in a roadside teashop or tender coconut stall or a discussion dissecting the day’s ride over a beer at end of the day, these were bonds and memories in the making.The team of organisers and 50 volunteers who make this tour possible year after year did a commendable job. With seven years of experience, they have learnt to anticipate the needs of the riders and are well-equipped to handle any situation. Physios and bike mechanics played a vital role in making the tour comfortable and smooth, both for the riders and their bikes. The official photographers captured the spirit and magic of TfN with great images.Today travel is more about the journey than the destination itself. If that journey can be accomplished with our own sweat and blood, it is an enriching and rewarding experience. Biking is one of the best ways to see a place, to get close to its people and nature. Only when you are biking, do you stop to smell the roses along the way. It is not easy but it is worth it.