http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Where-life-comes-a-full-circle/article14010183.ece

A king and queen. A Secretary of State. Two architects. Thirty five thousand masons. And a city waiting to regain its status as the Capital of the nation. It all came together against all odds, and Delhi, the city of cities, regained its much cherished status. It made sense. As Lord Hardinge said, “Delhi is still a name to conjure with. It is intimately associated in the minds of Hindus with sacred legends. It is in the plains of Delhi that Pandavas fought the Kauravas. To Muslims it would be a source of unbounded gratification to see the ancient capital of the Mughals restore.”Soon, King George and Queen Mary came to Dilli Durbar as Edwin Lutyens and Herbert Baker’s labour of love started. The architects, who had their own not so infrequent differences of opinion, however, took care to give Delhi a futuristic city which was respectful of its past. Thus the new buildings came to have chajjas, the sub-breakers as in Rajput palaces, latticed windows, the jaalis, as in Mughal buildings and double domes or impeccable chhatris.The city was slow to start; it took almost 16 years to complete. But that was unavoidable as the architects went the extra mile to be honest to history, and correct to the prevalent politics. For instance, Connaught Place, named after the Duke, was to be a circular structure that made casual walk such a delight. With its soothing simplicity, it was a welcome departure from the ornate works of the Mughals. Yet every building had a chhatri as well as a chajja. The chhajja was proposed by a series of columns, each column in itself worked like cogs in the wheel. All were round and white with barely an extra layer or two at the bottom and the top. But there was something often missed by commoners. The pillars had a bell-shaped structure at the top. It is encapsulated best in the words of Lutyens himself. Once the Duke of Connaught asked him why he had bells at the top of the columns, Lutyens replied, ‘Did you never hear of the Mughal superstition that the ringing of the bells proclaimed the end of an empire’.From one column to another, the half bells stayed silent – both at the Parliament House and CP – the British continued to rule till 1947. In the years after Independence, the same columns were used by many a pedestrian to rest aching back on cool evenings.Now, they were another purpose: pavement shops, offering every thing from local handcraft to magazines and novels, and yes, trinkets, including bells, sit under the chhajja by the pillar. Today, each pillar has a story to tell, some are used as landmark for roadside meeting. Expressions like, “Meet me near the Balujas pillar outside the United Coffee House pillar, or the one where that poster-seller sits,” are often heard. All this brings to mind, Shahryaar’s lyrics, “Deewar or dar ko ghaur se pehchaan lijiye, is anjuman mein apko aana hai bar bar.”Pillars of poetry, pillars of history, often columns of rendezvous – Connaught Place and its pillars.