http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/When-nature-calls-on-the-highway/article14026753.ece

It was pitch dark outside. I peeked outside the bus window. There was no one as far as the eye could see; a hazy bulb glowed at a far corner. And then specks of gold from cigarettes gradually floated into view. They were held by men who had just got off their buses at the highway motel. A gust of air brought with it the stench of urine — the men had urinated in the open. The bulb, I then realised, marked the women’s toilet. By the time I made up my mind to step outside to use it, the bus took off. My heart sank. I badly needed to use it. As I considered asking the driver to stop, the bus trundled into the highway that moonless night.It’s a journey I will never forget. I sat gritting my teeth, praying that the bus would stop at a petrol bunk or a toll booth. I was 21 then, and on my way to Mysore where I worked. My stomach hurt and I was worried I would faint. At last, Mysore arrived, and I walked into one of the smelly toilets at the bus stand. Thinking back, I should’ve asked the driver to stop. But I learned my lesson.From then on, I prepare my body meticulously for overnight bus journeys. I finish dinner three hours ahead of the journey and drink not a drop of water after that.Highways in our country do have motels with well-maintained toilets that women can use. But, some buses never stop by them. Despite a ticket costing almost Rs.1,000, not all private buses that connect Chennai to places such as Coimbatore, Tiruchi, and Madurai, stop for passengers wanting to use restrooms. Some stop in the middle of nowhere, where only the men get off to finish their business. The drivers often never spare a thought for the women on the bus. A friend had to argue with a driver to stop at a toilet when she was travelling. She was menstruating and had to explain it to the man who then drove her to one.On a bus to Chennai one night, I urged the driver to stop at a toilet. It took him 30 minutes to locate one. It was in a deserted toll booth. I was uncomfortable to walk into it at the dead of night, but I had no choice. A lot of women suffer silently during long bus journeys. Ill-maintained toilets that could give them urinary infection, toilets with no proper latches or lights, toilets with no water… some require you to pay up to Rs. 10 to use them.Perhaps, our Government can construct and maintain toilets along highways? But ultimately, it all depends on the bus operators. They should be more sensitive to the needs of their women passengers. Till then, we will have to suffer. Like I did recently on a night bus to Coimbatore. I wish I’d not had that extra drink of water after dinner.