http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/When-personal-becomes-universal/article14012135.ece

“I am not a Hindu, Muslim, or a Christian bigot! Though I am born a Hindu, Krishna for me is not just a God. It’s the resonance which his persona reflects, is what enamours me!” says Aditi Mangaldas a dancer-choreographer better known for her experimental choreographic works. Recently the artiste choreographed a kathak performance titled “Hari Ho... Gati Meri” for her senior disciple Gauri Diwakar.Describing the piece, Gauri said, “It is a traditional Kathak project, based exclusively on the verses of Muslims poets who wrote, praised and even at times worshipped, Krishna. ‘Hari ho...Gati meri’, is both a search, as well as a demonstration of the common thread of spiritualism and mysticism that runs through the worship of Krishna. Although considered and respected as a Hindu God, Muslim poets were nonetheless keen to express their love and admiration for Lord Krishna.”However for Mangaldas, the uniqueness of this project does not lie in it being based on Muslim poets’ love forKrishna. The point of reference for the senior dancer is never the particular religion of an individual poet but rather uncanny and abstract facts like how Krishna’s flute emits out a universal resonance; how the choreography is about ‘you’ mingling and embracing the divine; and how one is looking constantly outside but may be the light is present within us.But with such neutral approach towards religion, how was Mangaldas able to choreograph a traditional piece for Gauri? “See whichever choreography I have done to date is pegged on a personal experience. It is developed through my private encounters with society at large, and then may be the choreography develops and goes on several tangents. But the seed is my personal say. Therefore, when Gauri came to me to choreograph it for her, owning the piece, feeling it as my own skin, so that justice is done to the choreography, was what came as a challenge,” replies Mangaldas.Gauri acknowledges the role of Sanjay Nandan, who came up with this distinct concept and researched it well. The production is divided into four parts: The first one ‘Resonance’ is based on the poetry of Sayyad Fazlul Hasan, focusing on Krishna’s flute rendering the fount of eternal life; the second ‘Shadows Of Each Other’ based on Malik Muhammad Jayasi’s poetry is abouthow Radha and Krishna were shadows of each other;the third called ‘One’ explores their Radha and Krishna’s physical manifestations; the final piece ‘Hari Ho… Gati Meri’, propounds on how ‘you’ look brazenly outwards to seek the truth, but it is in you, Krishna’s flute, his truth, the God is within you!As for its other crucial aspects, vocalist Sami Ullah Khan lent his voice reciting soulful poems, Mohit Gangani recited padhant, percussionists Yogesh Gangani and Ashish Gangani provided accompaniment on the tabla and pakhawaj respectively and Kiran Kumar rendered tunes aptly on flute.