http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Whitener-adhesive-abuse-rampant-among-children/article13991467.ece

The death of a student on Koduvakkonam estate in Peerumade taluk has brought to light a cheap way of getting into a state of intoxication that would create severe health problems. The habit is prevalent among children, especially in the plantation areas of the high ranges.Suresh, 13, who died at the Kottayam Government Medical College Hospital recently, was a victim of the habit of inhaling synthetic adhesive. When he inhaled the adhesive used for rubber tube, he fell unconscious and was referred to hospital.It was found that the boy’s internal organs were severely damaged. The boy died of bleeding and the autopsy found that almost all his internal organs failed and there was severe bleeding, which led to his death. A senior official at the Peerumade police station told The Hindu on Thursday that the boy, who was from a broken family, stayed with his mother in the estate lane where she worked. The boy got the habit from Tamil Nadu from where the family had migrated to the tea estate.“There are a large number of minors, especially school students, who have the habit of inhaling synthetic adhesive or whitener, which they get at a cheap rate from stores,” the official said.Earlier, similar incidents were reported from Cheruthoni, near the district headquarters, and police officers have directed shop owners to inform them about the customers who purchase whitener or synthetic adhesive regularly. The official said that easy availability and cheap price made the children victims of the habit, which they learn from their peers. At Cheruthoni, the shop owners came to know about the misuse of the adhesive only when they were informed by the police. “Though Suresh was admitted many times to hospital after inhaling the adhesive, he continued the habit, finally causing severe internal damage. Street children in the metros fall easy prey to the habit,” he added.The police official said that it was a social issue though parents and teachers were not aware of it. A campaign was needed, especially at schools in the plantation areas, to curb the menace, said a top official of the Narcotic Cell.Death of a student has brought to light the way children are getting into such habits.