http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/society/Whimsical-lines/article13999418.ece

There is very little of exaggeration in Michael Luenig’s art. Each cartoon is simple, sparse, seemingly childlike, with its quivering lines, but with a wealth of meaning that’s sometimes hidden, sometimes pretty straightforward. Sixty-four of the veteran Australian cartoonist’s art works, spanning several decades of a distinguished career, are on display at the Alliance Francaise de Trivandrum, in an exhibition, ‘Appreciating the little things in life.’“Michael, whose cartoons appear in Melbourne-based The Age, is a man of simple tastes and that is reflected in his art,” says Sundar Ramanathaiyer, a cartoon researcher, who is co-curating the exhibition with Australian cartoon collector Jim Bridges. “He gives us alternative versions in small pictures, the highs, the lows, the joys, the sorrows... He sees the spiritual in everyday life. He inspires us to look into our soul for our fears, dreams and goodness,” adds Sundar.Leunig’s poetic lines and drawings are known to address the tender aspects close to our hearts, which might be perceived as inconsequential, and hence unimportant. “Through Michael, cartooning becomes a personal experience like a whisper, a guided tour, an introspection, a prayer. His work is often therapeutic. Appreciating the little things in life seems to be his philosophy. We feel they are profound because they are simple,” states Sundar, a huge fan of the artist, in a press note.True to the title and Luenig’s persona, the core theme of the exhibition is everyday life. Hence, there are quirky odes to the sun, the moon, the stars, the importance of finding the right pyjamas, the intricacies of growing mushrooms and tomatoes, cultivating asparagus, the pleasure of reading, journalism today, mood swings, nature, animals and even the simple joy of smelling freshly washed and tumble-dried socks! Most often, the themes are represented by his everyman, a gender-neutral human with large eyes and an exaggerated nose. Occasionally, ducks, birds, teapots and ‘curls’ (curly hair, curly trees, curly waves…) wander into the art by design and being a well-known poet too, quite often he jots down a poem to accompany the cartoons as well. “Michael is essentially a satirist and often uses his cartoons to make universal political statements against the War on Terror. Here, though, we’ve displayed only his whimsical side, the purely meditative works of art,” explains Sundar.The exhibition concludes on January 22. Time: 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.