http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/open-page/Why-you-should-give-it-back-in-good-measure/article13994202.ece

As I sat reflecting on what four months of life at Carnegie Mellon University had taught me, there was something screaming at me. Being a woman in a workplace filled with mostly 20-year-old men with high testosterone levels was very different from being a woman in a non-technological academic institution, as I was previously.I am a graduate student in Analytical Philosophy at CMU, a white-male dominated field. I am a social scientist by background. I asked myself, does staying away from a problem (being a minority) address the situation? The farther a social scientist or any human being pushes himself/herself from his/her level of comfort, the more distorted the image of life becomes, more dramatic your interactions outside your circle become, the more obtuse words and actions that you are not used to seeing become.The lives of most people who leave their home country involves a constant yearning to connect to the events of the past, when they encounter things. For me these moments of intolerance and indignity became gateways to events that I never experienced in the past directly. I heard voices without knowing what the words were saying. I saw images without knowing what the pictures meant.But they all came from the past, the very past that stored stories of women, Dalits, and the discriminated who were raped, ill-treated and abused to death. The very past that has burnt, wretched bodies seeking justice. For a split second, I felt what it means to be victimised and silenced. The anguish of not being respected or seen as a human from fellow-human beings.I hope I make myself clear at this point that this story is not about me, it is about a single and independent woman detached from home learning to see, hear, and ought to command respect for women and other minorities like herself.For all the unsuitable men out there who talk and say things without thinking. Think for a moment about the impact you can have on women who listen to your preferences, when you rank women you meet or want to meet on Tinder. To denigrate the value and essence of someone to a mere number by their hip-waist ratio, facial symmetry, personalities, hair length and so on, and talk about it in a social setting: this is not acceptable. How can such acts not become a source of aggression, desire, and lust eventually? Your words can make someone uncomfortable, full of doubt, questioning within themselves, for being pretty, not being pretty, being looked at, not being looked at, listened to, not listened to, and so on. In this process you are taking away something incredibly personal, intimate, a testimony of someone’s life experience and identity that denotes a human.As a child I asked my mother, where do we come from? She showed me a picture of a woman delivering a baby and said, from a woman’s tummy.As a young adult I was told never to forget where I came from. Not until I read these words recently, “Bros are greater than or equal to Whores”, on the white board of one of my office-mates, did I think of two different moments that have a deep connection. This is the status a woman deserves, the very ‘woman’, the very same being, who had the courage and patience to protect you for nine months just so that you can come into this world; the same being who could bare her bosom so you could suckle, the same generous, loving, hardworking being because of whom you are what you are.Call me emotional, irrational, whatever. Rationality does not come in disrespecting someone, and definitely I am better off being emotional by valuing the labour and dedication of a human being.As a feminist, or as a human being concerned with transforming the structure of society, I find these actions and perceptions unjust and intolerant.So what do we do? I watched for four months, not because I could not revolt outright, but because the whole point about action is to move people into thinking and realising what humanity is, what it can do, how good and supportive we can be and how bad and intolerant we are capable of being.How does one achieve such sustained change? Do not try to lash at every instance of intolerance with heedless rage, but attack with forethought. Being silent is not okay; fight a strategic battle and never be ashamed of a quiet revolution. Your moves should indicate to the egocentric males and the insensitive group that we know how to give back ten-fold in the most tactful manner that they can ever imagine. Invoke the quiet resilience in you!varnitha.kurli@gmail.com