http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Widening-of-NH-50-near-Hosapete-to-begin-soon/article13995042.ece

Users of the stretch of the road between the tunnel on the outskirts of Hosapete and the district boundary can heave a sigh of relief as the long-awaited widening of NH 50 will begin in about a week or two.For, the existing stretch between Hosapete and Chitradurga has turned out to be a death trap with a large number of fatal and non-fatal accidents being reported in Mariyammanahalli and Hosahalli police station limits. Between 2013 and 2015, 110 fatal and 223 non-fatal accidents have been reported on this stretch claiming the lives of over 100 people.The widening of the existing 120-km two-lane stretch into a four-lane road has been taken up by the National Highways Authority of India at an estimated cost of Rs. 1,340 crore. The NHAI has entrusted the work to develop the stretch on build, operate and transfer model to an agency.The preliminary work of clearing the ground by cutting the trees on the land has begun. In all probability, the work on laying the road may commence from next week.“The four-lane road should be ready in about 30 months from the date of commencement of the actual work,” Somashekar, Project Director of NHAI, based in Chitradurga, told The Hindu .The two-lane stretch formed part of Solapur-Bengaluru NH 50, earlier known as NH 13. The stretch was narrow with several curves on the one hand and high density of heavy vehicles on the other. The density of heavy vehicles increased after a steel plant was set up adjacent to the highway. People of villages adjacent to the highway were scared to move on the road because of the large number of heavy vehicles plying round the clock. “Riding a two-wheeler was a nightmarish experience as they were not sure of returning home safely. Most of the accidents, which were invariably fatal, occurred while heavy vehicles were trying to overtake other vehicles. We hope that the authorities will complete the project expeditiously,” Laxman, a local youth, told The Hindu .