http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/Wind-gave-wing-to-AAP%E2%80%99s-odd-even-plan/article14004218.ece

ir quality in the city improved slightly on Saturday, even though restrictions on the use of private cars were lifted on Friday evening as the Delhi government’s vehicle-rationing experiment came to a close.The 15-day odd-even car initiative was meant to reduce Delhi’s toxic levels of pollution. While levels of particulate matter (PM) remained high, even increasing, during the first week of the experiment, the second week saw air quality improve. Experts say weather conditions had a role to play in the changes. On Saturday, meteorological factors brought down pollution levels, though the number of cars increased.A MeT official said wind speed was recorded at 10 km/hr and the maximum temperature was 17.2 degrees Celsius, which is 3 degrees below normal. Sunday will see light winds, with partly cloudy skies and light to moderate fog in the morning.The wind on Saturday brought levels of fine particulate matter (PM2.5) to 102.1 micrograms per cubic metre, according to the Earth Science’s SAFAR index.Though it was almost twice the standard of 60 micrograms per cubic metre, the concentration of PM2.5 was down from “severe” to “very poor” level.The concentration of coarse particulate matter (PM10) was 162.2 micrograms per cubic metre, putting it in the “moderate” category.In fact, weather conditions brought pollution levels in Central Delhi considerably lower than last week, with SAFAR’s Pusa and Lodhi Road monitoring stations showing “moderate” levels of both PM2.5 and PM10 as of 8 p.m. on Saturday.Over the 15 days of odd-even, the levels of particulate matter dipped on days that had favourable weather conditions, including faster wind speed and warmer temperatures.An uncharacteristically warm winter also helped reduce the pollution. However, experts say the fact that the number of cars on the road was reduced did also have some impact.“Due to the odd-even policy, some sources were stopped from adding to the emission load. In the first seven days, meteorological factors led to higher concentration levels of pollutants and the second half, the levels of lower,” said Sunil Dahiya, a campaigner for Greenpeace.He said that showed that the reduction of private cars did not have such a big impact, as weather conditions and other sources of pollution remained dominant.“The government has also acknowledged that this [odd-even] is not the only solution. Let’s learn from these 15 days that we require a regional plan on multiple levels,” Mr. Dahiya said.According to data from the Central Pollution Control Board , the average level of PM2.5 at Anand Vihar fell from 361.69 micrograms per cubic metre on January 1 to 183.25 on January 15. However, the level fell further to 144.30 microgram per cubic metre on Saturday, showing that weather conditions had a role.Due to the odd-even policy, some sources were stopped from adding to the emission loadSunil Dahiya,Campaigner for GreenpeaceOver 15 days of the odd-even plan, levels of particulate matter dipped on days that had faster wind speed and warmer temperatures