http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Window-to-life-and-times-of-Katha/article13980170.ece

‘Behind the success of every man, there is a woman’. The underlying meaning of the saying had manifested truly in the relationship between Thakazhi Sivasankara Pillai, one of the greatest writers of Malayalam, and his wife Kamalakshi Amma, fondly called Katha. A docu-fiction based on the life and times of Katha, a woman of substance who chose to lead life as an ordinary woman, will be released shortly.Katha had became a shadow of the legendary writer, lending support to the man who went on to become Jnanpith winner, with scores of brilliant novels and short stories to his credit. Among his celebrated works are Kayar, Chemmeen, Randidangazhi, Thottiyude makan, Enippadikal, Anubhavangal Palichakal, many of which have been translated into English.Born in 1912, Thakazhi had married Katha in 1934.The two-hour docu-fiction focuses on Katha’s life as a wife and widow. The film, titled ‘Thakazhiyude Katha’, picturised in and around Thakazhi’s house in Kuttanad, is scheduled to be released by Chief Minister Oommen Chandy next week. Former president of Alappuzha district panchayat, U. Pratibha Hari, dons the role of Katha. “Katha was an affable lady, who never did any harm to anyone. She was simplicity personified, but not very expressive,” recalls Ms.Pratibha Hari, who had maintained close relationship with her.“It was a great honour to enact the life of a historic personality,” she told The Hindu .One of the peculiarities of the docu-fiction is that the voice of Katha is lent by the legendary writer’s grand daughter, Imma Dinakar. A non-resident Indian, she came all the way from UK for the purpose.Sound recording has been completed, film Director N.N.Baiju said. Thakazhi’s role is played by P.Jayaprakash. Litterateur M.T.Vasudevan Nair is the narrator.“Thakazhi’s autobiography throws a lot of interesting information on the social life of the times,” says Mr.Baiju.The team involved in the production of the docu-fiction is in the process of making a feature film depicting the love of the couple.“Thakazhi had been practising as a lawyer in Thiruvananthapuram. But after marriage, he never went out of Thakazhi, perhaps indicating the deep bond that existed between the couple,” he says.A docu-fiction based on the life of Katha, wife of writer Thakazhi Sivasankara Pillai, will be released by the Chief Minister next week.