http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Winning-over-cancer/article14022785.ece

Millions of people affected by cancer worldwide are battling hard to survive its after-effects. It is tough to win over cancer but it is equally tough to go through the hard and painful treatment. Definitely, as a patient, grit determination to live on are very important, but for a survivor it is like adjusting to new feelings, new problems and different ways of looking at the world.Moving on post treatmentFor once you are relieved to finish your treatment, it is hard not to worry about cancer coming back. The fear and stress of seeing your doctor for follow-up even after the treatment ends is exhausting as these visits may include physical examinations and blood tests, which are important to the reoccurrence of cancer. Other tests, like CT scans, or MRIs can be also performed again. Also, even after the treatment gets over, make sure to maintain a file of your health records including reports related to your biopsy, surgery, if any, radiation and chemo, a list of drugs and doses you were given, all imaging reports, so that if need be, in future you have them handy. Lifestyle and diet changes during and post treatment Nutrition is an important part of cancer treatment. Eating the right kinds of foods before, during, and after treatment can help you feel better and stay stronger. For instance, eating right can be hard, both during and after cancer treatment as treatment may change your sense of taste. You may have a sick stomach or lost weight post treatment. On the other hand, some people may gain weight even without eating more. This can be upsetting, too. If you have lost weight or have taste problems, eat well as with proper eating habit these problems will get better. Eating small meals every 2 to 3 hours until you feel better often helps. Try to eat at least 2½ cups of vegetables and fruits each day. Choose whole-grain foods instead of refined white flour and sugars. Try to limit meats that are high in fat and cut back on processed meats like bacon. If you drink alcohol avoid or limit your intake. And don’t forget to exercise. A good diet and regular exercise will help you stay at a healthy weight and give you more energy.Cancer patients and survivors often complain of fatigue and feeling of exhaustion. This “bone-weary” feeling doesn’t get better with rest. For some, fatigue lasts a long time after treatment. It can be hard to be active when you feel tired all the time. Patients who follow an exercise program often feel better and cope better, too.If you were sick or on bed rest during treatment, then it is normal to have lost some of your physical fitness, endurance, and muscle strength. Exercise can help make your muscles stronger, and can help fight fatigue. It can also help the depressed feeling that sometimes creep with being so tired.Your exercise program should fit your needs. An older person who has never been very active may not be able to do the same amount of exercise as a 40-year-old. If you haven’t been active in a few years but can still get around, you may want to try starting with short walks. Sometimes it’s hard for people to allow themselves to rest when they’re used to working all day or taking care of a home and family. But sometimes one should rest when required. Once your treatment ends, you may find yourself to be power bank of emotions. You may be vulnerable emotionally and think more about your relationship with your spouse or partner or children and it could be adding stress to your life. This is a time when you need people you can turn to for strength and comfort. This support can come from family, friends, or counselors. Tips for cancer survivors Adjusting to physical and emotional changes after cancer can be tough. It is important to learn how to cope with fear of recurrence. Make a wellness plan for a healthy lifestyle. Be informed about the physical changes you may experience. 