http://www.thehindu.com/business/Industry/Wipro-names-Abid-Ali-Neemuchwala-as-CEO/article13980826.ece

India’s third largest IT exporter Wipro Limited on Monday announced the appointment of Abid Ali Z. Neemuchwala as the Chief Executive Officer and Member of the Board of the company. The company also appointed the current CEO T.K. Kurien as the Executive Vice Chairman. Both the appointments will be effective from February 1, 2016, the company said in a release. “Over the past five years, Wipro has been transforming into a next generation technology and consulting company with defining differentiators in the market place,” said Azim Premji, chairman, Wipro Limited. T.K. Kurien, will continue to report to Azim Premji and will remain a Member of the Board until March 31, 2017. “As Executive Vice Chairman, TK will enable Abid by leveraging his deep relationships with customers and chart out a new technology roadmap for Wipro,” Mr. Premji added. Wipro had appointed former TCS BPO CEO Abid Ali Neemuchwala as the group president and chief operating officer (COO) of the company effective April 1, 2015.“In his nine months as the Group President and Chief Operating Officer, Abid has effortlessly assimilated into the culture and ethos of Wipro. The new structure will ensure smooth succession and will build on the solid foundation we have developed to drive superior growth and profitability. I wish both TK and Abid every success in their new roles,” added Mr. Premji. “Abid has demonstrated a deep understanding of technology, business vision, sound judgement, and an innate ability to bring people together. I have no doubt that Abid is the right leader to lead Wipro in its next phase of growth,” said T.K. Kurien. “It is a privilege and an honour to be invited to lead Wipro, a company with a rich heritage of technology innovation and unflinching commitment to values. I am convinced that we are well positioned to seize new opportunities in today’s marketplace. I look forward to working with the thousands of Wiproites to take our company to greater heights," said Mr. Neemuchwala in a statement.