http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/Wish-garbage-away-the-satellite-way/article14017534.ece

Imagine there’s a garbage mound that’s been lying in your neighbourhood for a while (that’s easy). You pull out your cellphone, send the exact satellite map along with pictures to the civic authority, and voila, in a little while, someone actually clears the eyesore away.Just imagine.Across the country, while these urban eyesores are not new, a new reality could soon be a Space-based solution at the click of a finger as a mobile app (application) to alert civic agencies.The Dehradun-based Indian Institute of Remote Sensing (IIRS) is developing the app along with IIT (BHU), Varanasi. It combines crowd-sourced, satellite-based information, such as the position of garbage dumps, a map of their surroundings, and graphically conveying them to civic bodies through geo-spatial technology (GST).The freely available app should be ready in a couple of months and can be used anywhere in the country, according to IIRS Director A.Senthil Kumar. Its success will depend on a pro-active public, who download and use it, and the involvement and response of the local bodies.IIRS is a 120-strong institute under the Department of Science that trains scientists in the nuances of satellite-based Earth observation or remote sensing.The garbage management pilot started three months ago, on October 2, marked as Swachh Bharat Divas, when it got down to the ground reality of waste management.Dehradun, a sleepy tourist spot turned busy capital of Uttarakhand, is home to nearly a dozen Central government institutes. A week ahead of it, IIRS briefed the institutes and roped them into a waste clearing experiment on five main routes in the city. Each institute became a zone. About 40 IIRS staff surveyed the dump spots, created maps with images from remote sensing satellites of the Indian Space Research Organisation as well as their precise lat-long coordinates using satellite navigation data from GAGAN, which is India- specific augmented GPS.On that day, the volunteers sent geo-tagged details of 22 dumps to the local Nagar Nigam, which had kept 43 personnel ready. An IIRS team monitored the activity from a control room.“We started the activity around 9 a.m. By 2 p.m., the locations were cleared of garbage [of about 10 tonnes] in a very co-ordinated way. It has been an eye-opener experiment. We now plan to involve educational institutes and their students,” Dr. Senthil Kumar said.Notable participants were the Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology and the Wildlife Institute of India.How it worksAccording to ISRO, the activity involves geo-spatial technology which blends three satellite-based technologiesGlobal Navigation Satellite System or the common GPS (here, its Indianised version called GAGAN) to locate the garbage dumpsRemote-sensing imageries to give a picture of the neighbourhoodGIS (geographical information system) which uses the two along with other details such as height, roads and other infrastructure