http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/Women%E2%80%99s-fest-brings-back-marriage-songs/article14015757.ece

Among the several traditional practices that are slowly disappearing is the ‘Sobaane Paadugalu’ that embraces traditional marriage songs or ‘Hase Haadu’ in Kannada. These are simple melodies that are passed on from generation to generation. In a nod to the relevance of this age-old practice, Gamaka artiste Gangamma Keshavamurthy will be singing some marriage songs at Kalagrama, Nagarabhavi, at 5.30 p.m. on Saturday.This is as part of the All-Women World Folk Arts Festival, inaugurated in the city on Friday. “I am taking up some of the traditional folk songs I learned from my mother Somanayakamma. She used to have nearly 3,000 couplets in her memory bank,” says Ms. Gangamma, who is the president of the Karnataka Sangeetha Nritya Academy. She will be accompanied by members of the Anjana Mahila Sangha in the performance.As she renders the sonnet-like songs — woven in classical scales like Kharaharapriya, Darbar and Madhyamavathi — Ms. Gangamma explains, “The flow is so raga-based and classical that it seems to envelop even the lyrical beauty found in sonnets.”Songs for the early-morning proceedings in marriages also were embedded in the morning ragas as bhoopala, and the lyrics were straightforward, for they were either prayers for the newly-weds or jovial renderings on the long list of wedding recipes.“We also used to have songs when the bride sets about to do her make-up, but these days they all emerge from beauty parlours!” says Ms. Gangamma.“What is unique is her ability to sprinkle Hase Haadu with nuances unique to Gamaka styling, giving it a new format. We plan to record them and present them to the Karnataka Janapada Parishath for their archives,” says Srivatsa Shandilya of IntlArts, which is organising the event.NOT A LOST ART YETThe Karnataka Janapada Parishath, created by the late folklorist H.L. Nagegowda, has nearly 200 hours of ‘Sobaane Paadugalu’ in its archives. “We have CDs of some of the best yesteryear experts like Sobaane Ramaiah,” says Sarvamangala, archives head at the Parishath. She adds that the practice is being revived now, and the Parishath is getting calls from people who want to source books, CDs and artistes who can sing at weddings. “Jaladhikere Ganga Huchamma and Sobaane Ramaiah are hired to sing at weddings even now,” she says.