http://www.thehindu.com/features/homes-and-gardens/Wood-is-good-in-interiors/article14014059.ece

An interior indisputably takes on a warm tone when wood prevails in plenty as a décor element. Be it as panelling, flooring, cabinets or merely as a decorative highlight, the presence of wood connects to nature, exuding a sense of the warm outdoors.While hardwood manifested in most of such wood inclusions in the interiors of yore, the impracticality of using the same in the present context, be it from the economics point of view or the environment impact, brought to existence the use of plywood. Wood in interiors now prevails more as ply options than hardwood.A factor that brought richness to an interior in the use of wood was the spectacular natural grains of different varieties. Plywood options too come with a variety of such grain options. The types of wood used are likewise varied, the veneer revealing the arresting natural grains. Bamboo has been one such, being increasingly sought for its rapid renewable quality, its strength as well as aesthetics. Not surprisingly, industry is increasingly looking at this option as an interior solution.Apart from its rapidly renewable qualities, bamboo, given its rhizome root structure, holds the soil in place, preventing soil erosion. Interestingly, bamboo also absorbs 70 per cent more carbon in a year compared to other hardwood varieties. What was initially looked at as an option for making tools, baskets, handicrafts, furniture, has now transformed to offer wall panelling and flooring solutions, making the bamboo industry a thriving segment.Inherent potentialSmith & Fong, a two-and-a-half-decade-old company based in California, recognised this inherent potential in bamboo and began the first exploration into laminated bamboo where form and function were integrated, coming up initially with a design for bamboo boxes that were both functional and aesthetically pleasing.What started as a box making exploration, transformed soon into flooring options where not just bamboo wood was used but also coconut palm, bringing in the unique, rich grains and textures into the interiors.Be it wall solutions, flooring options or cabinet grain plywood, the range on offer is wide, especially wall solutions bringing in a three-dimensional depth with their arresting textures.One of their flooring options, Plyboo Stiletto, packs strength so intense that it serves as a stiletto-proof flooring solution. “It is manufactured three times harder than traditional red oak flooring, making it a most sought after as well as most appropriate flooring solution for both residential and retail applications”, says Daniel Smith, Founder and CEO, Smith & Fong.Wood is not a preferred solution to provide acoustics even when its aesthetics far outweigh the beauty of fabric that is commonly used. Smith & Fong however developed its Sound Collection range that offers unmatched beauty while meeting the acoustical requirements. The variously shaped holes in the plywood panels, besides lending an attractive contemporary pattern, provide the functional value of absorbing the sound required for acoustics.Formaldehyde is commonly used in wood-based products which do cause serious concerns on indoor air quality. Recognising this, Smith & Fong developed a formaldehyde-free soy-based adhesive for its wood solutions, both in its bamboo as well as palm plywood options. “The soy-based formaldehyde-free as well as other zero-formaldehyde resins, offer a product that is acutely sensitive not just to environmental concerns, but also to the health of the users”, says Smith.The products of the company are put through California Section 01350 testing, the most stringent off-gas testing protocol available anywhere. Smith & Fong recently entered the Indian market to offer Plyboo bamboo and Durapalm palm branded lines of decorative panels.