http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/business/Working-out-an-investment-strategy/article14005867.ece

If you are ready to commit to an investing habit, start by asking yourself how old you really are. It isn’t a rhetorical question.Why? For the simple reason that outlining a suitable investment strategy, unique to your situation, must necessarily be jumpstarted by taking a close look at your age... or perhaps I should say stage of life, and defining your financial priorities accordingly.In a nutshell though, each of us has very different needs during the different stages of our lives.Take my own example. In my younger days of my very first job, I was thrilled to finally move beyond the crutch of parental support. I had a vague idea that I should perhaps begin saving but without any real savings goal. I needed enough to pay my rent and living expenses, put a little bit savings and have just enough left over to go see a movie or buy dinner with friends on the weekend.With no real responsibilities beyond this, I could afford to take more risk knowing that they could reap more rewards in the long term. That’s when I invested in my first equity mutual fund.Once I got married, things changed. All of a sudden there was a larger household budget with two mouths to feed, mortgage expenses once we bought a home, and then added medical expenses once my kids were born. As the years rolled by, that morphed into schooling expenses, family holidays, future investments for the kids....the list goes on and seems to get increasingly longer each year!It was early in this stage of life that I thoroughly researched and invested in single company equities – I rode the waves of their volatile journeys but held onto them for long enough to come out at the high. I also bought a bunch of long-term, illiquid and relatively safer investments like gold, property and bonds.Today, as my kids are in their teens, higher education is a big one for us. And I need to ensure that I have a steady income stream from my investments that will give me the flexibility of choosing to stop working one day in the future. Yes indeed...I am firm in that even though it is a huge security right now, I do not want to have my mental peace guided by a pay check for the rest of my life.Hence, I will re-shape my portfolio into some more conservative, safe investments that will offer a steady yield. But I still have a little room to have fun with investment opportunities that some analysts might consider risky.And then there will come a day, when most of my responsibilities are over. What I will need from my investment portfolio is a steady income stream to pay my bills through to the end.You may not think it is easy to plan way into the future but truth be told, the more that you can try to do that today, the better off an investment portfolio you are likely to build for tomorrow. Were I able to turn back the clock, I wish I had started investing even earlier...in a smarter way, having pre-supposed the various paths I could have trodden. Ah, easier said than done!Well, people and situations might change but our financial priorities through the stages of our lives are pretty much the same. So feel free to take mine as an example. My journey charts out the same milestones of most – regardless of who you are or where you might be at any give stage.(The writer is a financial journalist and author of ‘Money Smart: The Indian Woman's Guide to Managing Wealth’)The earlier a portfolio is planned, thebetter itis likely to be