http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/Readers-Editor/Words-to-celebrate-words-to-reflect/article14019434.ece

It was a carnival of ideas. Some of the participants at The Hindu Lit for Life used the forum as an Open House. They interacted not only with the visiting writers but also with journalists from the newspaper to relate the discussions at the festival to the newspaper’s editorial content. Personally, I interacted with a range of people: a legal scholar working on the biography of Granville Austin, students, retired bureaucrats, and aspiring writers. Discussions were about analogous learning. They were punctuated with literary allusions, poetic ironies, artistic interpretations and the rules that govern journalistic practices.Commenting on the talk by National Conference working president and former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Omar Abdullah, a reader who had travelled from Mysuru said: “The talk touched upon the multiple issues at stake in Kashmir. It provided insights into the working of Article 370. The talk stressed the need to calibrate both the internal and the external dimensions, and explained the futility of war. One can get this level of detailing only in a talk that is not reduced to a sound bite or in a newspaper like The Hindu.”Singer Sanjay Subrahmanyan explained the relationship between the inherent restrictions in each form of articulation and creativity. He argued that each art form came with its own set of constraints — a painter has to work within the confines of his canvas, a photographer within what a frame can offer, and a writer to a given word limit. For him, these restrictions, instead of limiting one’s imagination, fostered creativity. One of the students from Calicut University drew a parallel between this observation of the singer and the writings in the opinion pages of this newspaper. He said: “The writers have to adhere to the rules of grammar, the word limit and explain complex issues in an accessible manner day after day. I think anyone who has the depth of knowledge in his or her chosen field can be an example of Sanjay’s position that freedom is in the mind.”Free speech and offensive speechHis classmate felt that Alexander McCall Smith captured the lines that divide free speech, creativity, and offensive speech very well. McCall Smith said: “It’s increasingly difficult to write in a humorous vein now than ever before, because of increased encouragement to be sensitive and take offence at the drop of a hat. It is very important to have free speech, as one should be able to poke fun. This does not mean authors can make gratuitous comments. Excessive sensitivity is like a weed killer. It is killing ideas, literature and humorous writing.” The young student wanted to know the editorial judgment tools that are deployed to differentiate a gratuitous comment and what is excess sensitivity that leads to self-censorship.Devdutt Pattanaik’s presentation on the Gita generated interesting discussions during the coffee break. Some readers questioned his assertion that there is no ‘truest’ interpretation. Pattanaik rather ambiguously declared: “My truth is the way I think the world is; and yours is how you think it is.” A participant felt that the post-presentation discussion format also demanded creativity to pose an informed counter-question. In his case, as he was formulating his counter based on other scholarly work to challenge this assertion, the session ended. He wanted to get an answer from Pattanaik to D. D. Kosambi’s argument: “The Gita has attracted minds of bents entirely different from each other and from that of Arjuna. Each has interpreted the supposedly divine words so differently from all the others that the original seems far more suited to raise doubts and to split a personality than to heal an inner division. Any moral philosophy which managed to receive so many variant interpretations from minds in widely different types of society must be highly equivocal. No question remains of its basic validity if the meaning is so flexible.”Gulammohammed Sheikh’s session, ‘Images of the City’, was an exceptional experience in which fear, loss, bigotry and urban apathy came out poignantly and powerfully. If any journalist could write prose akin to what this wonderful artist from Gujarat managed to achieve, narrative journalism would reach new heights. Talking about narrative writing, Amitava Kumar spoke about the importance of non-fiction in a persuasive manner. He said: “After the Delhi rape incident, the father of the girl said that when he saw his daughter in that condition, his first thought was ‘How will I have the money to take the body back? That’s what poverty does to you.’ In this respect, non-fiction delivers a certain sense of reality that fiction cannot.”The general festive mood turned sombre when K.A. Gunasekaran, a well-known Dalit folklorist and theatre personality, who was scheduled to participate in the concluding programme ‘Dalit aesthetics and politics: How the Tamil Dalits reclaimed their identity’, passed away on Sunday (January 17) morning. Nonetheless, the discussions opened up space and the debate created a sense of optimism among the participants that the journey towards an inclusive society is inevitable despite many entrenched prejudices. The participants left the venue with a sense of hope. None of us were aware that Rohith Vemula, a Dalit research scholar, had killed himself around the same time. As Meena Kandasamy points out, he has left us with only his words.readerseditor@thehindu.co.in