http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/World-Bank-approves-24-x-7-water-project-for-Belagavi/article14005925.ece

A Rs. 663-crore World Bank-assisted Karnataka Urban Water Sector Improvement Project to provide 24 x 7 drinking water supply for Belagavi has been approved and bids are being evaluated. The duration of project-implementation is 12 years, i.e., four years for implementation and the remaining time for operation and maintenance. This was disclosed during a meeting World Bank officials — Rajesh Subramanian, Senior Water and Sanitation Specialist, and Sona Thakur, External Affairs (India) — had with Mayor Kiran Sayanak, Belagavi City Corporation Council members and senior officials here on Monday.Now, the 24 x 7 drinking water supply is under implementation in 10 demo zones in as many wards of the corporation.Clearing apprehensions of the Council members, Mr. Sayanak said that the project would cover all the localities in all the 58 wards of the corporation, including unauthorised layouts. The need of the hour was to co-operate with the government, World Bank and contractors for the expeditious implementation of the project.Among the members who interacted were Leader of the ruling group Pandhari Pundalik Parab, Opposition leaders Ramesh Sontakki and Deepak Jamkhandi.Deputy Mayor Meena Rayman Vaaz also stressed the need for early implementation of the project.Later, Executive Engineer Lakshmi M. Sulgekar told presspersons that the project would be implemented in two phases. Of the Rs. 663 crore cost, Rs. 427 crore has been earmarked for the first phase till 2026 and Rs. 236 crore for the second phase till 2041. World Bank’s financial assistance towards the entire project would be Rs. 427 crore (72 per cent) and the balance amount would be contributed by the corporation.The project had been evolved considering the demand for the next three decades and availability of water. As against the projected population’s water needs of 184 million litre a day, the availability was 115 million litre a day.The Irrigation Department has accorded approval for additional allocation of about one tmcft from the Hidkal Dam across the Ghataprabha, which would be sufficient to bridge the gap of 69 million litre a day.Corporation officials said that the project would be implemented on performance-based management contract. A project monitoring unit would be established and water tariff would be revised as per government order.The duration of project-implementationis 12 years, intwo phases