http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/kozhikode/Workshop-for-councillors-in-city-governance/article13985099.ece

The Indian Institute of Management Kozhikode (IIM-K) conducted a one-day thought leadership workshop on ‘City governance for better Kozhikode’ for councillors and senior officials of Kozhikode Corporation on Wednesday.Seventy two out of the 75 councillors and 22 officials attended the workshop held on the IIM-K campus. Prof. Anandakuttan B. Unnithan, chairperson, Management Development Programmes (MDP), who handled the major sessions, addressed themes such as leading, managing and administering, goal setting, Management By Objectives (MBO), nurturing teamwork, motivating people and designing organisations.Prof. Abhilash Nair conducted a “visioning exercise” for the councillors in the afternoon. S.R. Nair, consultant and leading industrialist and B.R. Raj, head, Smart City Practice, Wipro, also engaged the participants.Mayor V.K.C. Mammed Koya addressed the gathering and briefed about the origin of this programme and bringing together the councillors to the campus. The faculty members from IIM-K emphasised the need for a long-term plan for Kozhikode Corporation. Plans, they stressed should not be merely confined to five years. Important environmental issues of Delhi and flood situation in Chennai also came up for discussion. Deliberations were also held on proper action plan for avoiding such major hardships for the public.Since Kozhikode is slowly emerging as a major IT hub, proper visualizing of infrastructure development, other support facilities also find a place in the agenda of Kozhikode Corporation’s vision plan. Development of proper connectivity and linkages are essential for attracting industry clusters, IT units, and other service sectors to the city, they said.The speakers claimed that the major challenges of the Kozhikode Corporation is to have proper waste management plan, providing drinking water and clean environment for the citizens of Kozhikode.The dream of ‘Smart Kozhikode’ is certainly possible with togetherness, commitment and determination by the councillors, they said.