http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/entertainment/World-wide-ruler/article13978775.ece

n 2014, Kim Kardashian flaunted her very shiny, very naked derrière on the cover of Paper magazine with the headline — ‘Break the internet Kim Kardashian.’ One day after publishing the story, the website received 6.6 million views and it’s all anybody could ever talk about.She began a trend that seeped into 2015, where we saw a range of fads take over the World Wide Web. Right from a lip challenge gone seriously wrong, to a black and blue dress dividing nations, here a few things that broke the Internet in 2015:The dressFamily feuds, breakups, and friendships were lost when a poorly lit photograph of a $77 dress made its way across every social media channel. In photographs, the lace colours switched between blue and black and white and gold from person to person, revealing differences in human colour perception.Right from Ellen DeGeneres, to Taylor Swift, everybody questioned either their sanity or their peers. According to scientific studies, women and senior citizens saw it as white and gold even though the owner, Cecilia Bleasdale confirmed that it was blue and black.Kylie Jenner lip challengeAfter Kim, the next Kardashian to break the Internet was her 17-year-old sister. Teenagers across the globe were using glass bottles or shot glasses in a DIY lip plumping exercise, to emulate Jenner’s perfectly luscious lips. The challenge involved people putting their lips into the openings of bottles or glasses and sucking in until the air vacuum caused their lips to swell. The challenge caused a number of painful reactions and lasted for days, proving that the Internet is indeed a dangerous playground. Jenner herself, was against the challenge and tweeted that she’s rather have girls be themselves.The condom challengePainstakingly planned out challenges were clearly all the rage last year. Teenagers found a new use for latex when they created YouTube videos of dropping condoms filled with water on their friend’s heads.If done right, the dropped condom would stay intact on the person’s head, creating a bizarre visual of a bobbing head under water. Apparently, the trend was meant to debunk the myth that boys who are too well endowed can abide by the no glove, no love rule.Drake’s Hot Line BlingLast year saw rapper Drake, manic dancing in his new music video, ‘Hotline Bling,’ which inspired a bunch of jobless yet talented people to begin their own versions of the song and dance.Vines, memes, and mashups portrayed gifs of Drake swatting flies, fighting with light sabers, or even playing tennis while he moved his hands back and forth vigorously. Music dubs were also made where he was seen dancing to Mambo No.5, Stayin’ Alive, and the Rugrats theme song.Steve HarveyThe most recent personality to take over the Internet with an embarrassing goof-up, was comedian Steve Harvey.Harvey, who hosted Miss Universe 2015 attracted a number of haters when he announced the wrong winner of the title. For a good three minutes, Columbian Ariadna Gutiérrez, believed that she was the centre of the universe until Harvey walked on stage and admitted that he was mistaken. Pia Wurtzbach from the Philippines was the real winner, and the crown was embarrassingly removed and placed on her head soon after.Memes with Harvey’s face wishing people ‘Happy 2020,’ soon took over the Internet as the clock struck midnight on January 1, 2016.(The author is a freelance writer)Friendships were lost when a poorly lit photograph of a $77 dress made its way across social media