http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/Worthy-of-emulation/article14022171.ece

The Sircilla revenue division in Karimnagar district emerged as the first revenue division in Telangana State to be declared as open defecation-free with the implementation of cent per cent individual sanitary latrine scheme (ISL), said Collector Neetu Prasad here on Tuesday.Speaking after hoisting the national flag at the police parade grounds as part of Republic Day celebrations in Karimnagar, the Collector proudly announced that the Sircilla revenue division comprising Sircilla and Vemulawada Assembly segments was declared open defecation-free segments with cent per cent ISL scheme. She said that very soon they would also declare Peddapalli revenue division as open defecation-free division with the fast completion of ISL scheme in the district.Giving details about the ISL programme, she said that they had sanctioned 1.41 lakh ISLs in the district by allocating Rs 169.35 crore. Out of that, they had so far completed construction of 42,608 latrines. Among them, a total of 12,711 latrines were constructed in Sircilla Assembly segment and another 13,890 ISLs in Vemulawada Assembly segment. She said that they would declare entire Karimnagar district as open defecation-free very soon by ensuring cent per cent ISLs in all the Assembly segments.She also claimed that Karimnagar district was also free from ID (illicitly distilled) liquor with the initiatives taken by Prohibition and Excise Department. She said that they were taking all measures to mitigate drinking water crisis in the summer season with an action plan of Rs. 58 crore. The Collector also listed out various welfare programmes taken up by the district administration.The Collector distributed assets worth Rs. 98 crore to 2,595 beneficiaries. The Collector also felicitated freedom fighters on the occasion. The students of various educational institutions have presented colourful cultural programmes.District Judge Naga Maruthi Sharma, SP Joel Davis, Joint Collector Pausumi Basu, Municipal Commissioner Krishna Bhaskar, assistant Collector Gautham and others were also present.