http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Work-on-Subala-Park-to-begin-today/article13992870.ece

The work on the Subala Park at Vettipram, near here, will begin on Monday, according to District Collector S. Harikishore.Mr. Harishore said the Scheduled Caste Development Department had sanctioned Rs.5 crore to the District Tourism Promotion Council for the development of the Subala Park aimed at the socio-economic uplift of the SC women.Subala is a charitable society registered under the Travancore Cochin Scientific Literacy Charitable Societies Act way back in 1995. The society was the brainchild of the then District Collector, K.B. Valsalakumari, and it had started functioning in 1995 itself.The five-acre land acquired for the proposed Subala Park in 1995 houses a pond and a few dilapidated buildings constructed 18 years ago.Subala also provided training to SC women in various skill development and self-employment schemes in its early days. However, the project was more or less abandoned, later, due to lack of interest on the part of the beneficiaries and absence of transport facility.A compound wall was constructed to the Subala park site, spending Rs.50 lakh in 2013. The auditorium constructed at the site and other small structures are in a dilapidated state, now.MLA’s initiativeLocal MLA K. Sivadasan Nair and the municipality has taken the initiative to revive the project.The district administration has prepared a revival formula to make it a self-sustaining project.The Collector prepared a project estimated at Rs.5 crore, initially, envisaging direct employment opportunity for 20 SC women.First phaseMr. Harikishore said the first phase of the project, estimated at Rs. 3 crore, would begin on Monday. The first phase of the project work would be completed in the next six months and the District Nirmiti Kendra has been entrusted with the construction work.The renovation of the existing building to a modern auditorium, developing the pond to facilitate boating, setting up of an amphi theatre, children’s park, food court, and a 3D theatre are the major components of the project to be implemented in the first phase, according to the Collector.