http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Your-next-weekend-getaway-%E2%80%94-a-studio/article13994149.ece

“You need to try it to know it,” says artist, sculptor and photographer Dewakar Chandran as he drags a low stool and places it in front of a clay wheel. There are three of those at his plush Life and Art studio in Adyar (started in 2013) — two imported and one made in India. A blob of clay is pinched out from the stock, and slapped onto the centre of the wheel, which looks like a steel pan placed upside down. With minimal instructions, he switches on the machine. The clay slides smoothly on the inside of our palms — a cool ticklish sensation. “It’s soothing, almost relaxing. IT and business professionals, foreigners, housewives and engineering students come over during the weekends, and spend hours just playing with the clay,” he laughs.Traffic snarls, a bad day at work, or an ugly fight — all of it, apparently, can be swept away by getting a little messy. There is proof. Art seems to “reduce stress and anxiety; increase positive emotions; and improve flow and spontaneity, positive identity, and social networks”, according to research (published in the American Journal of Public Health). “It is therapeutic. It helps you forget all other problems, and concentrate on the clay,” he says.It’s time to learn the basics. We are asked to cup our palms around the clay, then make a hole in the centre with our fingers and simultaneously exert pressure from the inside. A miracle of physics — we have a fairly well-shaped pot in front of us. This goes to a massive electric kiln (probably the only one in the city, he claims) in the other room, or is left to dry in the open — joining the array of clay pen stands, pots, tiny barrels and candle stands. Another shelf includes ones with a fancier finish — glazed pots with patterns on the outside. Probably, by students who are in the fourth level of the studio’s structured programme (there are four levels: a total of 10, two-hour sessions in batches of four or five, on both weekdays and weekends).Dewakar studied pottery at a few studios in Puducherry, and practised for a while at Bangalore’s popular Clay Station, before setting up his own. He realised that there were a number of drawing classes for children, art colleges with studios for professionals (like at Lalit Kala Akademi), but not many for adults to unwind, or learn a skill — unlike in the West. “When I opened the studio, there was quite a response; it was almost like people were waiting for a place like this,” he says, slicing the pot off the wheel with a knife and handing it over to us.So, is pottery the in thing now? The answer comes from a little far away. Nestled in the greenery of DakshinaChitra, Muttukadu, and surrounded by heritage houses, is the recently renovated (2014) Ceramic Centre. “Most certainly yes,” says artist and potter S. Potrarasan, who manages the studio, complete with a wood kiln and gas kiln, besides clay body, glaze and other resources required for pottery. The centre, sheltered by a thatched roof, hosts international professional artists’ residences (such as the Indo-Korean International Ceramic Pottery Camp in 2013) and collaborates with galleries for workshops. “But we have also had people of all age groups come in and try their hand at it. Then, there are interns from art colleges,” he says.Closer in the city, artist Kamla Ravikumar’s Studio 41 in Kalakshetra Colony hosts classes (pottery — with and without wheel, acrylic, oil in canvas, sketching, folk art, Tanjore art and glass painting) for working professionals, hobby artists, design students and children, and also provides course certificates to those who are pursuing a career in art. All you have to do is register (through the Facebook page of Studio 41) as a group of at least four members, and Kamla will have the clay wheel ready.While her studio has been open for a decade now, over the last two years, there has been increasing interest. “If you visit on a Sunday, you will see at least six Class XII kids in my studio, preparing for the NIFT (National Institute of Fashion Technology) and NATA (National Aptitude Test in Architecture) exams.” People now are more open and accepting of art as a career. More corporate establishments and colleges now organise art workshops; even weekend family get-togethers have a small session of clay making, she notes.On the other side of town, in Avadi, Christina Ranjan, a visiting arts and interior design lecturer at NIFT and a few other colleges, converted her drawing room into a studio in 2015. Since then, women lawyers, journalists, software professionals and housewives have been visiting regularly. Some come from as far as Puducherry and Erode. The most sought-after courses seem to be Calligraphy (Basic: four days and Advanced: 20 days), and cushion-making using a technique that doesn’t require knowledge of tailoring. Most studios, such as Christina’s, are open in the evening (also weekends) for people to de-stress. There are no fixed rules or planned sessions. The aim is to let go, and enjoy the moment. Then, there are those like the 18-month-old Rainbow Fish Studio in Kotturpuram, which aims at redefining the way art is taught in schools, through a well-planned all-year-round syllabus. Designer Sara Vetteth, founder of the studio which teaches around 1,000 kids a week, says the students are taught to link movies, pop culture, and architecture to art. There are professional in-house sculptors and art teachers who talk to children about Leonardo Da Vinci, Albrecht Durer, and Indian masters such as Broota, Bikash Bhattacharya and Laxma Goud. Last year, they held three courses for adults on design thinking, working with charcoal and dry pastels.As artist A.V. Ilango, whose studio in Alwarpet organises classes for both adults and children, says, “Somewhere along the years, the way art is taught has changed. Drawing is not like what is taught in the schools, where students have to just copy what the teacher draws; it is much more. It is about understanding yourself, and being in the now.”