http://www.thehindu.com/features/downtown/Youngsters-come-together-to-save-their-centuries-old-ponds/article13977017.ece

This group of youngsters may not have the experience to take up civic issues in their neighbourhood. But, they have realised that if they stand together, their voice could be heard. And so they formed Thoraipakkam Mudhanmai Pakuthi Residents’ Welfare Association.The two-month-old association has around 30 members, aged between 19 and 35 years of age.One of its key objectives is saving the ponds at Okkiyam Thoraipakkam. S. Nagarajan, association president, says, “The two water bodies — Kannan Pond at Pillayar Kovil Street and Buljen Pond at Kulakarai Street — in the area are believed to be centuries old.”“Fifteen years ago, water in these ponds was potable. People from in and around Thoraipakkam used to come in cycles and carry water in pots from these ponds. Over the years, the ponds have become contaminated, with illegal pipes letting sewage into these ponds,” says A. Emperumal, a member of the Association.“Recently, we came to know that according to the layout, there is a poromboke land near Buljen pond and it was meant for construction of an altar for carrying out death rituals. People used to perform death rituals here once upon a time. But now it has been encroached upon. Also, the water from the pond is unusable,” says Nagarajan.“Both these ponds have wells and the one on Buljen is not in use anymore; the one in the Kannan Pond is however used to pump underground water into an overhead tank. The well developed cracks through which surface water from the contaminated pond entered it. After repeated complaints the cracks were closed,” says K. Prabhakar, member.One of their first initiatives involved clearing a vacant piece of land which belonged to a Vinayagar temple. The members cleared the overgrown bushes and puddles of sewage and planted tree saplings. “The land measures approximately 18 grounds. We want to convert it into a park as there is none in the area,” says another member M. Prem Kumar.Now the members plan to take up the pond issue on a war footing. “The ponds can be revived if the illegal sewer connections are plugged. We plan to approach the officials concerned soon to take up this issue,” says Nagarajan.