http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/Young-minds-prove-their-mettle-at-art-fest/article14017599.ece

The classrooms, verandas and the sprawling playground of the Jawaharlal Nehru Technical University - Kakinada (JNTU-K) have become platforms for children to display their talent in singing, dance, drama, short-story writing, debate and literary criticism.The annual Kriya Children’s Festival that had been limited to schoolchildren from East Godavari district for the last three years, is now a State-level event. Accordingly, students from across the State turned up for the two-day event on Saturday. Ably supported by teachers and parents, they proved their mettle, with each participating in at least three to four events.Incidentally, the organisers dedicated the day to seniors, and they participated in as many as 15 competitions. Meanwhile, the campus became the perfect venue for the festival, with organisers arranging everything overnight, from makeshift greenrooms to dining hall in whatever space available.At a time when the focus is on teaching in the mother tongue, as many as three competitions on Telugu literature were organised. Students participated with enthusiasm in short-story writing, story analysis and poetry writing competitions. Renowned writers and literary critics, including Sa. Vem. Ramesh, Peddinti Ashok Kumar, R.M. Uma Maheswara Rao, Datla Devadanam Raju, Sammeta Umadevi and Vadrevu Veeralakshmi Devi, judged the participants. They also made it a point to give tips to students on writing stories and poems based on everyday experience.A good number of students presented solo dance. Competition in Telugu speaking was a hard nut to crack for most participants.“Over 6,000 students participated in various competitions Day One, and we expect more participation on Sunday, as competitions will be conducted in sub-junior and junior categories. We are providing free food and accommodation to participants and those accompanying them,” said S.S.R. Jagannadha Rao, secretary of Kriya Society, the NGO that is conducting the event.