http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/YSRC-MLA-arrested-released/article14006870.ece

Narsaraopet MLA Gopireddy Srinivasa Reddy was arrested and later released under dramatic circumstances on Monday morning.Dr. Reddy has been charged under Section 353 IPC (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of official duties).The hotbed of faction politics in the district continues to simmer with tension as hundreds of party supporters gathered at the residence-cum-orthopaedic nursing home of the MLA. Additional forces were rushed from Guntur to quell any unrest. Prohibitory orders were clamped in the town.Police used force to disrupt a procession of party workers soon after the MLA was released from police station. Two workers were critically injured in the melee.‘Political vendetta’Terming his arrest ‘political vendetta,’ Dr. Reddy said that his arrest was made at the behest of Speaker Kodela Siva Prasada Rao and his son Sivaram. The MLA said that he has been charged for taking up the cause of farmers opposing laying of a road cutting across their fields.It was on January 11 that the MLA went to the village where revenue and survey personnel taking measurements for a internal road being laid at Ramireddypalem village in Rompicharla mandal. He later expressed his solidarity with the farmers staging a protest at the office of Tehsildar, Rompicharla.“I have been booked unfairly for siding with the farmers. I have complete evidence of what has happened and I am ready to produce the evidence in the court,” Dr. Reddy said.Condemning the arrest, the YSRC Party has given a call for bandh. District party president Marri Rajasekhar, senior party leaders Ambati Rambabu and Guntur MLA Sk. Mustafa rushed to the police station.“The arrest and the lathicharge on our supporters show that the TDP government is becoming intolerant of any criticism. We will continue to rally behind farmers, Anganwadi workers and raise these issues in the forthcoming budget sessions,’’ Mr. Rambabu said.