http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/YSRC-cries-foul-alleges-political-vendetta/article14004938.ece

onsequent on the arrest of Rajampet Member of Parliament P. Midhun Reddy, YSRC legislators and activists launched a scathing attack on the State government, terming it an act of “political vendetta”.Midhun Reddy and his gang had allegedly assaulted an Air India official following an argument with the latter at the Tirupati airport in November 2015.Midhun’s father and Punganur MLA Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy, along with fellow legislators K. Narayanaswamy (Gangadhara, Nellore), R.K. Roja (Nagari), Chintala Ramachandra Reddy (Piler), Gadikota Srikanth Reddy (Rayachoty), K. Srinivasulu (Kodur), Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy and M. Sunil Kumar (Puthalapattu), attempted to lay siege to Gajulamandyam junction on the Tirupati-Chennai highway. However, police promptly intervened and took the protesters in an open van to the Renigunta Urban police station.They were booked under Section 151 of the IPC (holding an assembly of five or more persons after being commanded to disperse). Police also picked up a number of party activists and housed them in cells. They were released later. “The MLAs were let off within a few minutes,” Renigunta Urban Circle Inspector K. Balaiah said.Addressing the media outside the police station, Mr. Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy termed the arrest an act of political vendetta by Chief Minister N. Chandrababu. He also accused the government of misusing the police machinery to harass MLAs and indicated that they would not be cowed down by such acts. “We have told Mr. Naidu in the past that things would not be rosy for him ever. One day, we will have to swap positions,” he warned.Similarly, Mr. Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy called Midhun’s arrest a heinous act by the “scam-tainted” government to silence the Opposition. Ms. Roja noted that people were watching the happenings and would respond at the right time.YSRC to seek Speaker’s interventionYSRC Whip in Parliament Y.V. Subba Reddy on Sunday said the party would take up Midhun Reddy’s arrest with Lok Sabha Speaker Sumitra Mahajan. They also accused police of “trumping up charges at the behest of the TDP”. Meanwhile, a notice for privilege motion was issued in the Lok Sabha by the YSRC on the “foisting” of a politically-motivated case by the ruling TDP, which was “bent on unleashing a reign of terror” unable to digest the YSRC’s popularity in Chittoor district, particularly in the Chandragiri Assembly segment, which included Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu’s native village of Naravaripalli.“The YSRC will not be cowed down by such arrests effected to wreak political vengeance by the government,” Mr. Subba Reddy said, adding: “We will expose the TDP’s political game plan before people by holding agitations, besides resorting to legal recourse.Denying the charge that Midhun Reddy had assaulted an airport official at the Tirupati airport, he demanded that the government release the CCTV footage on the incident. Following pleas from fellow passengers, the Rajampet MP had sought issuance of boarding passes for those who had come five minutes late for boarding the Air India flight, he said.Protesting YSRC cadre heldThe Chittoor district police on Sunday morning took several activists of the YSRC into custody to prevent them from reaching the Gajulamandyam police station in Renigunta mandal, where Mithun Reddy was taken following his arrest at the Chennai airport on Saturday night. Meanwhile, the local police at Tamballapalle, Piler, Punganur, Palamaner, Satyavedu, Puttur and Nagari intensified patrolling on highways, preventing party activists from proceeding to Gajulamandyam. More than 40 activists were arrested at Tamballapalle, and 100 in Piler, in addition to some elsewhere in the district. They were all released on bail by evening.