http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Thiruvananthapuram/Zoo-eyeing-Mysuru-giraffes/article13980058.ece

The Mysuru zoo recently welcomed a male giraffe, born through captive breeding there.The birth is good news not only for that zoo, but the Thiruvananthapuram zoo too. The reason — the Mysuru zoo is now in a position to spare a couple of giraffes for animals not in their collection.The Thiruvananthapuram zoo’s lone giraffe Raja died in 2009, a year after a female giraffe Molly died at the grand old age of 32. Since then, visitors were deprived of a glimpse of the hugely popular and graceful animals. Zoo Director K. Gangadharan said the zoo would contact the Mysuru zoo expressing interest in acquiring a pair of giraffes at the least. If the response was positive, the Central Zoo Authority would be approached. No objections were expected from the authority, as giraffes were included in the city zoo’s collection plan. Not only that, it already had a giraffe enclosure.A possible hitch is the keenness of the Mysuru zoo to acquire animals not in its collection. The zoo’s exchange platter is not exactly tempting; it has only small animals to offer. There are surplus tigers too, but whether they will be lapped up is suspect.However, the zoo authorities are ready to pursue the giraffe proposal in earnest. A way out, they say, is if the deal to give away three elephants to a zoo in Yalta, Russia, in return for a pair each of white lions and Siberian tigers, 15 ring-tailed coati, two llamas, and five squirrel monkeys, is successful. The proposed exchange remains stuck since early this year. Moreover, some of the animals to be acquired are not in the zoo’s collection plan.Mr. Gangadharan said the Forest Secretary had promised to look into the matter during a recent visit. Once the animals from Yalta arrived, those such as llamas, which did not figure in the zoo’s collection plan, could be given to the Mysuru zoo in exchange for the giraffes.Zoo sources said attempts should be made to bring the giraffes from Mysuru itself. This was the most practical option, especially as the giraffes here earlier had been also been brought from Mysuru. The animals would be well adjusted to conditions here and would not require to be quarantined. Another option would be the Kolkata zoo, which too had a successful breeding programme.