http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/%E2%80%98Govts-failed-to-protect-groundwater-sources%E2%80%99/article13983628.ece

Magsaysay Award winner Rajender Singh has charged the successive governments with failing in their duty to protect groundwater sources and allowing multi-national corporations to overexploit them for commercial use.He was here on Tuesday to lay the foundation for a water conservation work, taken up using the funds under the 14th Finance Commission provided by the gram panchayat, at Sarsamba village in Aland taluk in Kalaburagi district. Dr. Singh said that the turnover of companies from the U.S.A., France and European countries selling drinking water in India was around Rs. 50,000 crore. Painting a sad picture of the groundwater situation in the country, he said that the overexploitation of groundwater had affected the quality of water and the groundwater levels had gone down alarmingly too.“The government has conveniently absolved its mandatory responsibility of providing drinking water on a priority basis and allowing a situation to develop wherein the people entirely dependent on the MNCs for providing drinking water at a cost.”Dr. Singh said that the number of villages affected by scarcity of water had increased by manifolds. As per a report of the First Planning Commission, there were 232 villages which faced scarcity of water in the country. The number had gone up to 2.68 lakh now.Taking the example of Aland taluk, Dr. Singh said that 60 villages were now being provided drinking water through tankers.Pleading for a permanent solution to the water crisis in rural areas, Dr. Singh said that the priority of the government should be to rejuvenate natural streams, clear the clogged up natural ways of water that filled up tanks in villages, establish as many check dams as possible, and take up other water conservation and rain water conservation works. Referring to the success story of Rajasthan, Dr. Singh said that at one time, more than 1,200 villages in Rajasthan were facing severe shortage of drinking water due to fall in groundwater levels.Medical Education Minister Sharanprakash Patil, Aland MLA B R Patil, and water expert Suresh Khanapur were present.