http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/%E2%80%98Union-Minister-missing%E2%80%99-posters-trigger-row/article14000627.ece

Firebrand Bihar BJP leader and Union Minister Giriraj Singh was on Thursday declared “missing” by the people of his Nawada parliamentary constituency. Posters carrying his picture declared him “trace-less” and sprung up at different spots in the constituency. Later, the police removed the posters and local BJP leaders charged that it was the handiwork of some disgruntled elements of the area.In the poster captioned “Lapata—Nawada MP Giriraj Singh” (missing—Nawada MP Giriraj Singh) with bold mugshot photo, Mr. Singh was shown asking people “kaun ho tum log? (who are you people?).”Four pointsThere were four points written under the caption of the MP’s “Achievements.” “Ever since he has won the Lok Sabha poll he [Mr. Singh] is missing from Barbigha; whenever called, his PA says he is busy and puts down the phone; even after becoming MP he has not been able to do any work under his MPLAD fund in Barbigha, and he is occasionally seen on TV, if anyone sees him next time please inform immediately,” said the pointers on the poster put up by the people of Barbigha area. The parting shot, however, was that “those who will inform his whereabouts will get many thanks.”Local people said the Nawada MP had never visited Barbigha ever since he won the Lok Sabha poll and neither utilised his MP Local Area Development Fund for any development work there. “There was no option for us but to put up the poster about him gone missing. We only want him to visit us and do some development works here,” said a resident Ashutosh Singh.Minister’s stanceIn Patna, Mr. Singh said he was not aware of any “missing poster” put up in his constituency. “I have always been in touch with my constituency and even today I’m going there … whatever I have done for the constituency is uploaded on the website ... I don’t know how and why any poster has come up there,” the Minister told journalists. During the last Lok Sabha poll campaign, Mr Singh hogged headlines with his controversial statements.Local BJP leader Karu Singh said the posters were put up by the disgruntled elements of the area whereas JD(U) leader Arjun Prasad asked, “since Mr. Singh has been absent from the Barbigha area the local people just expressed their ire through the posters … what is wrong in it?” The local administration later removed the posters.