http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/%E2%80%98State-initiative-on-Internet-of-Things-path-breaking%E2%80%99/article13985916.ece

After proving its mettle on Information Technology initiatives two decades back, the State is now all set to pioneer the emerging concept of Internet of Things (IoT), thus paving the path for other States to follow, hailed speakers at the brainstorming-cum-interactive session organised here on Wednesday.Some of the best brains from the industry, academia and executive converged to pour out their ideas at the session on ‘Andhra Pradesh IoT Policy and Perspective’, organised by the Department of IT&C, which was consultative in nature to incorporate changes, if any, to the State’s IoT policy. IoT, a sunrise vertical, which emerged with the convergence of Information Technology and Electronics with the mainstream sectors of the society, has a lot of potential to offer for the new State.The participants hailed the State government’s incredible initiative to pursue IoT as ‘path-breaking’, as it came at a time when some States could hardly succeed in incorporating IT into their administration. “As a knowledge society of global repute, the State will take IoT applications to a wider spectrum,” announced J.A. Chowdary, IT advisor to the State government. The feedback from the stakeholders at this forum would help realign the IoT policy, he added.G.S. Phani Kishore, Special Secretary (IT), offered all support to technopreneurs coming up with novel projects. IoT as a tool could be incorporated into any sector, be it manufacturing, agriculture, services, banking etc., he added. IT Innovation Society Chief Executive Officer Nikhil Agarwal also appealed to the citizens to bring their novel ideas to a common platform, assuring that the State would extend all possible assistance to take them to a rung higher.Amara Raja group Chairman Galla Ramachandra Naidu envisioned the emergence of Tirupati as the IT capital of the State. A.S. Rao, a specialist on innovation, expressed happiness on having to speak in Tirupati on a complicated topic that is normally discussed in the Silicon Valley. Similarly, K.N. Satyanarayana, professor in-charge of Indian Institute of Technology Tirupati (IIT-T) saw the emergence of a congenial ecosystem in Tirupati, which he attributed to the arrival of prestigious national institutes like IIT, IISER, IIIT and the Sri City SEZ.Joint Director (IT) P. Prathap, Tirupati Information Technology Association (TITA) president Rayala Vamsikrishna and TTD General Manager (IT) P.V. Sesha Reddy were among the participants.Brainstorming session discusses IoT’s application in various areas