http://www.thehindu.com/sport/cricket/%E2%80%98It%E2%80%99s-on-the-mental-side-that-TN-is-falling-short%E2%80%99/article13995991.ece

Another season has concluded without a trophy triumph for Tamil Nadu.The side failed to make the knock-out stage of the Ranji Trophy, reached the semifinal of the Vijay Hazare one-day competition and did not get past the league phase in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Twenty20 tournament.What ails Tamil Nadu cricket? Why does the State, despite its deep-rooted cricket culture and top class infrastructure, fail to produce champion outfits?When The Hindu caught up with the State side’s selection panel chief Sridharan Sharath, he was brutally honest with his views.“We have a terrific first division league. In fact, cricketers from other States come here and return better players. Despite talent, the State side has, on occasion, crumbled under pressure or lost the plot from a position of advantage. It’s a mind-set issue,” he said.Sharath has a point. This season, Tamil Nadu fritted away a 140-run lead to actually lose to Mumbai in the Ranji Trophy. “We were unlucky to have two home matches badly affected by rain but the defeat at the hands of Mumbai came back to haunt the side,” he said.Then, in the last-four duel against Gujarat in the Vijay Hazare competition, a full-strength Tamil Nadu side, chasing 249, was coasting at 84 without loss before collapsing to 217 all out.“That was a match we should have won, particularly when opener Abhinav Mukund carried his bat to be unbeaten on 104. The others could have simply batted around him,” said Sharath.“The batsmen have to take responsibility, and bat as if their life depended on their innings. That has been missing,” he said.In his playing days, Sharath was a well-rounded left-hander who made 8,700 runs at 51.17, often revelling in crisis situations.“What we require is Mumbai’s khadoos approach where batsmen get through tough situations with grit and determination. Cricket is as much mental as technical. It’s on the mental side that we are falling short,” he said.Sharath also spoke about the ‘culture of winning’.“The distance between Bangalore and Chennai can be covered in just four-and-a-half hours. But, then, the Karnataka cricketers are so much more organised, disciplined, dedicated and humble. They might have missed out on Ranji qualification this year by a whisker but swept everything before them in the last two years,” he said.“You just cannot score a hundred, get a five-wicket haul and put your collar up. Cricket is all about consistency. You must remember the teams are working on you for the next season.”Sharath saw some positives, though, on the bowling front. “Pacemen Aswin Crist, M. Mohammad, Antony Dhas and all-rounder J. Kousik are all promising. And leg-spinner M. Ashwin is a terrific prospect,” he said.“The selectors and the support staff can only do so much. Eventually, the cricketers have to perform on the field,” Sharath said,