http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/%E2%80%98Pasuvula-Panduga-totally-different-from-jallikattu%E2%80%99/article14003130.ece

“This is ‘Pasuvula Panduga’ (festival of cattle), certainly not to be linked to ‘jallikattu’, snaps an enraged Subramanyam Yadav, a resident of Arepalle Rangampet, visibly disturbed at the spate of announcements by police and revenue officials, indicating a ban on the age-old festival.The village is among the few habitations to hold the festival, where domesticated bulls are made to run amok, while youth run behind them to catch the prize money tied to their horns. The residents are of the view that the festival is inaccurately linked to 'Jallikattu' observed in Tamil Nadu, though the common thread between the two is the recognition as an act of valour.Festive atmosphere prevailed since morning, as the annual event observed on Kanuma, the third day of Sankranti festivities, drew hordes of people from neighbouring villages as well as from other States. This year, the organisers set up nearly 20 enclosures for the cattle, which were released in several phases of the event. “The rules of the sport are simple. All you have to do is snatch the slate fastened between the horns of the animal as it runs through the serpentine path. Sometimes money ranging between Rs.10,000 and 50,000 is also tied to the slates and the winner takes it all. Other slates attract pre-decided prizes from the organisers,” remarked K. Anand Goud, a resident of the village. The event began with a person indicating the beginning of a run with traditional beats of 'dappu'. It is further followed by shouts and whistles of the runners, some of them who lead the cattle and others who chase them. When the animals reached the middle of the path, participants tried to snatch the slates, sometimes injuring themselves as well as the cattle. Though the villagers claim the sport is not brutal, veterinary experts say that the cattle are subjected to severe trauma. Meanwhile, as many as 20 participants sustained minor injuries during the event and are being treated in a local hospital.As alcohol used to be a major menace during the event, the police and excise departments announced to wield the stick on wine shops, but did not act tough. The boozers had a field day as the nearby liquor outlets remained open. Though initial reports indicated that the outlets were closed, they remained open with the people rushing in to grab a bottle or two. “We generally bring extra stock to cater to the demand just for this day. Everything will be sold by evening,” maintained an outlet owner.