http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/%E2%80%98We%E2%80%99ll-run-out-of-antibiotics-if-we-get-immune-to-the-existing-ones%E2%80%99/article13985523.ece

Abuse of antibiotics and dispensing of scheduled drugs without prescription by medical stores in India drew flak at the 103rd Indian Science Congress here on Wednesday.Ravikumar Rallapalli, medical writer, Icon Clinical Research, U.S., who chaired a session on ‘Recent advances in medical and new biology’ expressed concern over the indiscriminate use of antibiotics in India. “Stop using antibiotics. If we become immune [to them], there will be no new antibiotics tomorrow,” Dr. Rallapalli cautioned after pointing out that there has been a slowdown in research on development of new antibiotics.With very few companies engaging themselves in research on development of new antibiotics, Dr. Rallapalli feared that the world would run out of antibiotics if human beings become immune to the existing ones.He said that it took 18 years after its discovery for a drug to be available in the market in view of the multiple layers of processes involved. Antibiotics such as amoxicillin were losing their efficacy, he said. “Bacteria are not dying with small dosages. So, they are overloading it,” he said while expressing concern over doctors prescribing fourth-generation antibiotics to cure ordinary ailments.“If somebody is reporting sick, doctors are prescribing antibiotics. You just can’t prescribe antibiotics without assessing the disease properly,” he told The Hindu . He advised that patients should develop immunity and kill the bacteria without such drugs. “If you have cold, wait for a few days, it will go away. If it does not, then we will worry about it,” he said.He pointed out that many European countries were carrying out a benefit-risk analysis of the drugs. The exercise compares the benefits of a drug versus its risks, he said.Dr. Rallapalli also expressed concern over the availability of scheduled drugs in medical stores across the country without prescription.“A large number of people manning drugs stores are not pharmacists despite law prohibiting non-pharmacists from dispensing drugs,” he said, and emphasised the need for the government to regulate pharmacies.Concern over availability of scheduled drugs in medical stores without prescription