http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/%E2%80%98I-can-still-see-his-fragile-broken-mutilated-body%E2%80%99/article14006025.ece

: Om Prakash Tomar’s weary eyes are rarely dry while speaking about the death of his 40-year-old son Raj Kumar.“I can still see his fragile, broken, mutilated body which was handed over to us after my son, jailed in Tihar Jail, died in a government hospital of complication arising out of TB. Police and doctors told us that rats had disfigured the body kept in the mortuary and eaten away his eyes,” he says.Sitting at The Hindu office with passport-sized photos of his deceased son and copies of his disfigured body when it was handed over to the family, Mr. Tomar is still hurting and full of questions: “Who is responsible for this horror? Should the rodents in Delhi be punished for showing such disregard for the dead? Why isn’t my son getting justice? Is it because I didn’t sit at Jantar Mantar? Is my sorrow any less?The horror of what the family had to see has left it bewildered with sorrow. “Today I am a heart patient and suffer from severe sleep disorder. The sorrow of losing my son in this manner has broken me. Raj Kumar’s young children haven’t been told of what happened to their father.”He says that the compensation paid to the family is all in fixed deposit to be given to the children after they become adults.“How does the government think a retired class-IV employee will fund the education of these children? I appeal to the State government to please give the children free education. The rest will take care of itself,” he said.Mr. Tomar adds that his son’s death and the ‘mystery’ of his mutilated body has a lot to do with the inherent corruption in the system.“While he was admitted and under treatment at a government hospital in Delhi we paid bribe of Rs. 100 for a bucket of clean water. My son was troubled in the jail for being vocal and the final ‘revenge’ for not being able to pay the bribe was disfiguring his body,” claims Mr. Tomar.