http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/%E2%80%98Selfie-resume%E2%80%99-is-the-new-mantra/article13978798.ece

Are you adept at handling a camera and posing for a ‘selfie’? Forget some experts’ description of ‘selfie’ obsession as a ‘mental disorder’, for this in fact could help you land a good job.From conventional resumes, some youngsters from the city have transitioned to ‘Selfie resumes’ making full use of the creativity and expressiveness that comes along with it. Youngsters are listing out their educational details and professional qualifications along with interests as well as basic information in a format that is short, crisp, visually appealing and shows the creative side too.Hyderabad-based Happy Minds Manpower Solutions Private Limited is a consulting firm which has gone ahead and built a mobile app which supports Selfie resumes. If the registered users want to apply for a job opening, they can opt for an option available in the app which lets them record a 60-second video. This ‘Selfie Resume’ is then submitted to the employers.Leeladhar Rao of Happy Minds said, “This type of resume helps us cut down on fake profiles. The selfie resumes are not only genuine but also will be widely used in future during hiring process. Since we recognised its potential, we were the first in the country to include this option in our app.”According to Mr. Rao, a ‘selfie resume’ shows the candidates’ confidence levels, attitude, body language, communication skills and even cuts down 60 per cent of the filtering process. Those who have gone ahead and got one are a contented lot.M. Mahisha, an IT employee working for a reputed firm. said that she gave it a try since it was something new. “The experience was funny and I could get it right in the fourth or fifth try. I spoke about my professional experience and my higher education. Within a week of uploading the video, I started receiving emails from employers.”For Chief Technical Officer, A. Rameshwar, it was his bulky resume that made him opt for the new concept. “My resume is up to 12 pages and it is tough for people to read everything written in it. Through a simple video, I gave an overview of profile in just 40 seconds. The recruiters can even judge me and there is a higher chance they will remember me. Without any doubt, these are the next generation resumes.”Industry experts and HR professionals feel that it is still too early for the industry to accept these new resumes with open arms.“The new innovation like 'selfie resume' might be popular while hiring at the entry level but at higher levels, it’s still the traditional way which holds good,” said Mamata Vegunta, Director-HR, Invesco.