http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/%E2%80%98Thithi%E2%80%99-to-give-head-start-to-BIFFes/article14022587.ece

The first ever International Film Festival in Mysuru – the Bengaluru International Film Festival (BIFFes) - starting Thursday will take off with the screening of award-winning Kannada film Thithi .The Rama Reddy directorial will be screened at Kalamandira and entry to the inaugural show will be free. In addition to bagging several awards in various international film festivals, Thithi secured two awards at the prestigious Lokarno International Film Festival. Thithi is the lone movie from India in the Asian Cinema category.Only the inaugural film will be screened at Kalamandira and the rest will be screened at four screens in INOX at Mall of Mysore. Five films will be screened at each screen and 140 films in total will be screened during the festival, which concludes on February 4. A.R. Prakash, Deputy Director, Department of Information and Public Relations, Mysuru, told The Hindu that the city has geared up to host its first international film festival.A festive ambience is being created at INOX Multiplex, with posters and other paraphernalia being put up, he said, adding that a technical team from BIFFes has arrived for the arrangements. A team of 25 volunteers will assist guests and filmgoers during the festival. Mr. Prakash said the Mysuru leg will get about 40 guests, including award-winning international filmmakers, attending the last three days of the festival. In order to spread awareness about the festival, the Department of Information has put up ten hoardings across the city, he informed. The list of films to be screened at the festival has been announced on the festival website http://biffes.in/. Thithi figures in the list of Asian cinema. Palm to the Sun (Japan), Patrol (Philippines), Shoes (Iran), Hear Me (South Korea), Mother (Pakistan), and Utopia (Afghanistan) are among the films selected for screening in the category.Eighty-seven films will be screened in the category ‘Cinema of the World’. These include 3000 Nights, 45 Years (UK), A Monster with a Thousand Heads (Mexico), and Age of Cannibals (Germany) will be screened.In biopics, the production by Kannada film-maker Girish Kasaravalli – Images/Reflections: A journey into the Images of Adoor Gapalakrishnan – and four other productions from Indian film-makers Gautham Ghosh, O.P. Srivastava, Makarand Brahme, and Ashok Rane will be screened.