http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/%E2%80%98Strong-relation-between-TS-TD%E2%80%99/article14025971.ece

Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister and Telugu Desam Party (TDP) president N. Chandrababu Naidu called upon the voters in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) to vote for the party which had developed Hyderabad and initiated economic activity.“There is a strong relation between Telangana and TDP which had abolished the Patel–Patwari system. While it took 400 years for Nizam to built Hyderabad, it took 200 years for British to develop Secunderabad whereas it took only nine years to build Hi-Tech City which has created a permanent place for Hyderabad on the world map and generated employment for about three lakh persons directly and 14 lakh persons indirectly in addition to increasing the economic activity in the city,” said Mr. Naidu while addressing his first election campaign here on Thursday. This was his first public meeting in Telangana after becoming Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh.Coming down heavily on his political opponents stating that they had no moral right to criticise him, Mr. Naidu said that the TDP had played a crucial role in road widening, bringing Krishna water for Hyderabad at an estimated cost of Rs.700 crore, and getting permissions for Metro Rail and Outer Ring Road (ORR). “Why Metro rail project was delayed when all the permissions were accorded about 12 years ago? Had the TDP been in power it could have been completed in only three years,” he said clarifying that he had not ran away from Hyderabad as alleged by some persons and the TDP would remain here forever and stand with people.“Hyderabad belongs to all and it needs for further development. You have witnessed the development that took place during the TDP rule and decide yourself to whom to vote keeping the future in view,” Mr Naidu said. TTDP working president A. Revanth Reddy dared Irrigation Minister T. Harish Rao to ensure that all the six TDP MLAs who shifted loyalties to TRS resigned and got re-elected in by-elections. “I am ready to quit if Harish Rao accepts and wins the challenge,” he said.Later, Mr. Naidu addressed road shows at Beeramguda, Miyapur and Kukatpally.