http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/%E2%80%98Let-animal-sports-die-a-natural-death%E2%80%99/article14013377.ece

The ‘culture and tradition’ tag associated with animal sports in the country should be removed. Such sports should die a natural death, akin to the archaic social evils such as sati, Devadasi system, child marriages, etc., opined Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) vice-chairman S. Chinny Krishna.Pointing to the recent stay by the Supreme Court on the Central Government’s notification allowing the controversial bull-taming sport, Jallikattu, in Tamil Nadu, Dr. Krishna asserted that “culture and tradition” had nothing to do with harming the voiceless creatures.“As time passed, traditional practices that were considered a part of the Indian culture have been discontinued. The prevailing “traditional” animal sports should also follow the same path, as the aspect of safeguarding a legacy in the name of inflicting agony on animals is flawed,” he told The Hindu .Dr. Krishna, who is also Chairman Emeritus of Blue Cross of India (BCI), said that the same rule should be applied to buffalo races, cockfights, bullock-cart racing, and several other animal sports in the country.“The Supreme Court, in its May 2014 judgment banning Jallikattu, has identified “five freedoms of animals,” which are repeatedly violated at such traditional animal sports. The bull (or other animal) runs amok, which is a different trait from its behavioural pattern, as it is subjected to severe distress, both physical and mental. Besides this, the toll of people who died or were injured is remarkably high,” he added. Pointing to the documented proof, i.e., videos on Jallikattu, gathered by animal rights organisations, Dr. Krishna said that the bovines would be beaten with pointed objects, their tails twisted and bitten, and sometimes drugged with the motive of enraging them.These apart, there are several instances of cruelty towards animals. Conducting camel ride away from its natural habitat in humid coastal areas is one such instance. Even horses used for such rides are ill-treated by the owners.A step forward“Interestingly, for the first time in the history of Republic Day parade, the iconic camel contingent will not be participating in the event. If such a step can be taken, issues linked to animal cruelty can also be addressed well,” he said.Veterinarian and founder of Tirupati-based NGO, Animal Care Land, N.V. Srikanth Babu, pointed to the injuries sustained by roosters during cockfights.“Birds that survive the process sustain severe injuries, including bloody gashes, due to the metal spurs fastened to their legs. The organisers and owners cite age-old tradition and conduct the event just for the sake of large-scale betting. The plight of the roosters, right from the time they are put in enclosures, till their death goes unnoticed,” he observed. On the allegation of traditional animal sports organisers of discrimination against the poor, particularly in the context of the rich having their say in horse races and dog shows, animal right activists assert that there is no favouritism in this regard.Do away with the ‘culture and tradition’ tag associated withthe activity