http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/%E2%80%98Positive-stress-required-to-succeed-as-a-scientist%E2%80%99/article13983651.ece

Tessy Thomas, Project Director, Defence Research Development Organisation (DRDO), Hyderabad, said that positive stress was necessary for a scientist to perform.Speaking on the theme “Women and Science in 21st century – Opportunities and Challenges” at the Women’s Science Congress on Tuesday, Dr. Thomas, also described as the “Missile Woman of India”, narrated her own experience with stress as she climbed the professional ladder and pointed out that women scientists, along with learning to manage stress, should make use of the opportunities that come their way, to succeed.When she joined DRDO as a scientist, Dr. Thomas said she was under the impression that the work of the director, who sat in an air-conditioned cabin, was stress-free. And she, as an ordinary scientist, “had been tasked with a high level of commitment”.Soon, when she moved to middle level management, Dr. Thomas said she began feeling the pressure from the junior and senior scientists.“Today, as a Director, I sweat even in a fully air-conditioned environment”, she said, before adding that stress level increases when one climbs the professional ladder with responsibilities.As a project director, Dr. Thomas said she was tasked with multidisciplinary activities ranging from team management, complete system know-how, technical arguments to analytical ability, perspective thinking to decision-making capability and prior detection of faults.To become a successful scientist, Dr. Thomas said one needs to face these challenges along with positive strength.Though women continue to be under-represented in science and technology, she said the trend appeared to be gradually changing with more women coming forward to take up courses in science during the last few years.When she joined DRDO in the 80s, she said the percentage of women was barely two to three percent. But presently, women account for close to 20 per cent, she said.Role modelsShe felt that role models can inspire young girls to take up careers in science and technology. She attributed the under representation of women in science and technology to a variety of reasons including “the assigned role of the women in the society” along with pre-existing prejudices that form “glass ceilings” and discouragement in the work place.Role models can be a source of information and guidance to the young girl students by sharing their experience while parents, teachers and career counsellors have a significant role in assisting the way forward, she said.Worldwide women earn 42 per cent of the science degrees and more than 60 per cent in life sciences such as biology and medicine. The number of researchers is growing at a faster rate than men, giving rise to more scientific and technological knowledge base within women, she said.