http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Vijayawada/%E2%80%98Zamindari-system-integral-part-of-social-milieu-in-Andhra%E2%80%99/article14017320.ece

The rise, progress and decline of Zamindari system has been an integral part of the social phenomenon of Andhra region, said Adapa Satyanarayana from Osmania University.Delivering the key note address at a seminar on “Zamindari contribution to society in Andhra region”, organised by Montessori Mahila Kalasala in city on Saturday, Prof. Satyanarayana pointed to the fact that zamindari system is an important part of modern Andhra desa history.“To comprehend the present, we need to understand history; only then we will be able to design a perfect future,” he said.Zamindars were mainly of two categories- those who were ruling before the British came to India. “Zamindars of Vijayanagaram, Bobbili, Pithapuram and Nuzvid were the warriors of the pre-British period who exercised dominance. But the British East India Company made them their agents to mediate between them and the peasants,” he said.In 1802, a new class of zamindars emerged. In Andhra, they were made part of a State and so they played an important role in the socio-economic and cultural system. “Consent of people is essential to exercise power. The modern history records show that the zamindars initiated philanthropic activities and their clan in Vijayanagaram,Venkatagiri, Pithapuram and Nuzveed contributed a great deal to development of education social, literature and culture sectors. The British initiated famine camps which were later run by the zamindars. “Though they themselves were feudal and aristocratic, they played important role in the anti-Brahmin movement. They were active in political sphere too.Later, the zamindari system came under attack and in 1930, farmers, led by the Left parties, raised a voice of revolt against the zamindary system. In 1940, the zamindari system was abolished and in 1948, a Bill introduced to this effect was approved.Dr. Muvva Srinivasa Reddy from Andhra Loyola College and former deputy Collector of Machilipatnam Silar Mo hammad also spoke.Delving intothe historyZamindars of Bobbili, Vijayanagaram, Pithapuram and Nuzvid were thewarriors of the pre-British period who exercised dominanceEast India Company made them their agents tomediate between them and the peasants