http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/%E2%80%98Madhurapudi-airport-will-have-more-connectivity%E2%80%99/article13985900.ece

MP M. Murali Mohan has assured that Madhurapudi airport, which has tremendous support from passengers in the last six months, is going get more connectivity shortly.Addressing media conference here on Wednesday , he said that there were many requests from passengers to run flights from Rajamahendravaram to Tirupati, Shirdi, Bengaluru and Chennai via Tirupati. He said that he had already spoken to Minister for Aviation and Airports Authority of India on this issue and going to consult different airlines which are operating their aircraft to Madhurapudi Airport at present. “I hope that we will get all the three routes shortly and the number of passengers will also increase to meet the demand,” the MP added. He announced that Rs.171 crore proposals for Air Cargo from the airport have been approved by the government and works will be started immediately.Replying to a question, Mr. Murali Mohan said that the land acquisition for the extension of runway and other development activities in the airport was settled amicably with farmers because of the initiation taken by local MLA Pendurthi Venkatesh and the revenue authorities. He also admitted that some issues like drinking water, construction and maintenance of latrines and washroom outside the terminal and ATMs have to be addressed.Airport extensionAirport Director M. Raj Kishore said that out of 870 acres earmarked for airport extension, they have taken 389 acres into possession. As far as passenger traffic, there is an 85 per cent growth in the last four months . He assured that apron construction will be taken up in next six months and proposals are pending with the DGCA.Before the media conference, the MP held a meeting with Airport Director M. Raj Kishore, Sub-Collector Vijaya Krishnan, Additional SP Sidha Reddy, North Zone DSP Prasanna Kumar and other officials of Airport.Rajamahendravaram MP M. Murali Mohan says proposals for air cargo have been approved