http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/%E2%80%98Piracy-has-to-be-controlled-by-technology%E2%80%99/article14021251.ece

he film industry leaders from across the country on Monday said it was time to leverage technology and put a halt to piracy. Another point that was put across was the need for the government support for having more single screen theatres. .The occasion was the two-day FICCI (Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry) Media and Entertainment Business Conclave.Maker of the iconic film, ‘Sholay’, Ramesh Sippy said that there is a need for good content to constantly improve on film-making. He voiced his concern about the absence of an app to prevent piracy.“We have so much of technology. Why is technology unable to come up with an app against piracy ? ” he said.The filmmaker surprised the audience by making a reference to S.S. Rajamouli’s blockbuster ‘Baahubali’ and the way it achieved the highest rungs of success in Indian cinema. Underscoring the need for cinema to transcend borders of language, he said that together - regional languages industry and Hindi film industry could do much more.Rakeysh Om Prakash Mehra said that China that was lagging behind Indian cinema till 2009, had now grown by leaps and bounds and had left Indian cinema far behind, both in terms of number of films made annually and its turnover. While China now stood at US $ 465 billion, the Indian film industry has a turnover of paltry US $ 93.5 billion, he said, adding that the need of the hour is to dramatically increase the number of screens.Prominent film producer and convenor of FICCI’s Media & Entertainment Business Conclave for Telangana and AP, D. Suresh Babu spoke of the Media & Entertainment Skills Council that was set up in 2012 with an objective of bridging the skill gap in the sector by the consortium of the industry. The council had the mandate of creating a pool of about 11.74 lakh quality skilled workers over a period of 10 years, he said. Chairperson, FICCI Telangana & Andhra Pradesh, Sangita Reddy said the film industry is highly-disciplined. She said Hollywood was looking to Telugu tinsel town for more reasons than one, including creativity and innovation in terms of technology and ideas.Director of the International Indian Film Academy Sabbas Joseph also spoke.