http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/%E2%80%98BJP-always-had-strong-roots-among-Dalits%E2%80%99/article14020088.ece

The BJP leaders engaged in strategising for the GHMC polls seem unruffled by the perceptions of the TRS campaign having gained an edge. Even the recent developments related to the suicide of a University of Hyderabad (UoH) research scholar and subsequent cases against some of the party leaders, they maintain, will not impact their prospects in the civic body polls.Busy coordinating and leading the campaign, State BJP president G. Kishan Reddy said the party in alliance with the TDP has come up with an effective campaign that has started to take a lead over the ruling party’s glitzy initiative.The UoH issues, while unfortunate, he argued, were being sought to be milked by the opponents and others with vested interests.“We have all along been with the Dalits and weaker sections of the society and worked for them tirelessly. Pseudo-secular intellectuals, Congress, Left parties or others do not have to preach us about it,” Mr. Kishan Reddy said in an interview with The Hindu in the run up to the GHMC polls.Has the BJP campaign gone on a back foot following the suicide at the UoH?It is a wrong perception sought to be perpetuated. It is not true. Look at those carrying out this kind of talk. Even most of the students do not believe them or have faith in them.It is the same group of the Left, pseudo-seculars, Congress and others who carried out the ‘intolerance’ campaign before the Bihar elections.Once the elections were over there, all the talk of ‘intolerance’ simply vanished. And the same is being attempted here. For selfish gains, they go to any extent and their effort is to pick every issue and tag it to the Modi government.Union Minister Bandaru Dattateya has been a key leader in the city. Will the case against him affect party prospects in civic body polls?No way. As a party, we always had strong roots among the weaker sections and the Dalits. And Mr. Dattatreya has a long association in efforts to improve their conditions, and, in fact, even before becoming active in politics, he worked dedicatedly with them through Seva Bharathi. The hue and cry against the party and Mr. Dattatreya is by only a small section, and voters by and large do not accept it.The TRS seems to have taken an edge in the campaign. Was the BJP-TDP alliance slow in taking off?The ruling party came up with a glitzy and highly visible affair with hoardings and a horde of publicity efforts, and peaked early.We might appear to be slow, but we are in time and our campaign is already taking a lead over the TRS in many divisions.The TRS used every possible trick and did not even announce the ward reservation till the end. They tried to take advantage at every step, but our alliance is not deterred by them as we know our acceptance and support in the city.The TRS leadership has come out with strategies that appear to have left the Opposition baffled. Was the alliance prepared to counter it?The ruling party is seeking to engage in mind games and disrupt us. We are not ruffled by that. Its attempts to wean away elected representatives from other parties will not yield any positive result in the civic body elections. The TRS is promising the moon to the voters, but people are not going to be fooled by that.Take a realistic view of their promises. A house for every poor family in the city. Is that a feasible proposition?There are 22 lakh homeless in the city and how and where will you be able to set up so many houses. Where is the money required? It has to be done through taxes collected from the citizens and every civic body tax will go up for that.Voters cannot be fooled with such promises and assurances.What are your expectations for the party in the final outcome in this poll?BJP-TDP alliance will win the elections and we will have our Mayor in place. The TRS has an understanding with the MIM, and while denying the same in public, in tandem they are vainly trying to take us on.TDP has fielded Nara Lokesh for the campaign. Will he be able to sway the mood in favour of the alliance?It was our alliance partner’s decision. We will have to study the impact.