http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/%E2%80%98High-voter-turnout-my-priority%E2%80%99/article14000749.ece

While ensuring free and fair polls to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), nothing will be left to chance in attempting to increase the voting percentage, said GHMC Commissioner and Special Officer, B. Janardhan Reddy.In a chat with The Hindu here on Wednesday, Mr. Reddy said a series of measures stressing the importance of voters taking an active part in the polls were already initiated and meetings with civil society, voluntary bodies and residential welfare associations taken up. Students are being roped in to ensure that the message reaches their parents.“Civic administration is never complete without citizens’ participation. Instead of passive criticism, citizens should become active participants and play their part in the elections,” he said.Apathy of urban voters in queuing up to exercise their franchise being well known, the civic body has come up with steps to make it easier for them to check their polling station on a website and also from an Android-based mobile application. “They just have to enter their EPIC No. to get the required information on where to go on the polling day,” the Commissioner said. Demonstration of EVMs were also planned to drive away apprehensions on ways to use these among certain sections of the society.During the last Assembly elections, the GHMC jurisdiction had 7,300 polling stations and now the number has been increased to 7,750 and expected to go up to around 8,000 in the next few days. The effort, Mr. Reddy said, was to ensure that polling stations were located in a radius of one km.IAS officers appointed as observersUnlike in earlier instances when one Returning Officer took care of more than one ward, for the first time, each ward will have one Returning Officer assisted by one Assistant RO. “To ensure impartiality and neutrality, the officials are being drafted from other departments and other districts,” he explained. While senior IAS officers were appointed as observers, static and mobile surveillance teams with police and other officials have been constituted to ensure adherence to model code of conduct.In coordination with police, the process of identifying sensitive, hyper-sensitive and critical polling stations is being taken up and those listed as critical stations would be under the monitoring of micro-observers comprising officials drawn from central government and public sector undertakings.Arrangements are also underway for web-casting from sensitive polling stations.“We have decided to randomise the allotment of polling staff and also the EVMs and conduct mock polling 30 minutes before the poll commences in presence of political party representatives,” Mr. Reddy added.The civic body has come up with a website for voters to check their polling stations to make voting easier