http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/%E2%80%98Settlers%E2%80%99-hold-the-key/article13992810.ece

All parties, without exception, are scrambling for votes of ‘settlers’, particularly of Andhra Pradesh origin, in the elections to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, as they constitute a sizeable population and have the potential to swing the results.The ruling TRS has tried to impress on the section that the dividing line between people of AP and Telangana origin had withered away after the general elections in 2014 when they voted overwhelmingly in favour of Telugu Desam Party and the BJP. The Opposition, however, reminded them that the scars from wounds of bifurcation were still visible. This was clearly visible from the tweet of Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu’s son Lokesh in the hash tag ‘#HyderabadBarbaad’, wherein he said “two faced TRS proves it again. One that cries foul at settlers for votes, another that sympathises them, again for votes.”The Commercial Taxes Minister T. Srinivas Yadav displayed the goodies of TRS for settlers at a press conference here on Sunday, when he said he would be visiting Bheemavaram and other places in East and West Godavari districts to participate in Sankranti celebrations. Mr. Yadav had been going there for several years to take part in cockfights during the festival, but this time, he said, it was only to celebrate.The Minister also waxed eloquent about both Mr. Naidu and Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao saying both did a good job for development of their respective States. Mr. Naidu will address a joint rally of TDP and BJP at Nizam College grounds on Tuesday when the notification for polls will be issued. He will also participate in road shows in the city from January 28 to 30.Meanwhile, the TRS was said to have decided to field quite a few settlers as its candidates in the polls. Shedding its stand to restrict the holidays to schools for Sankranti to just a couple of days because the festival was not significant for Telangana, the TRS government has declared vacation to the institutions from January 11 to 17. It was rumoured that Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao visited AP in the past few months to build a feel good atmosphere with the population of that State here.