http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/%E2%80%98A-good-translation-is-not-literal%E2%80%99/article14016015.ece

A copy of God On The Hill: Temple poems from Tirupati by Annamayya was on the table when Velcheru Narayan Rao walked in. The book by Velcheru Narayan Rao and David Shulman, was a photocopied version, spiral bound. “This is such a lovely copy,” said the erudite scholar, as he browsed through it. He went through the book, page by page, and began to recollect the process of selecting poems, translating them, and how David Shulman and he had made structural alterations to many poems in order to open it out for the English reader.Velcheru Narayana Rao is Krishnadevaraya Professor of Languages and Cultures of Asia at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, and the author of path-breaking works on the history of Telugu and Sanskrit literature and poetics. With over 15 works to his credit, Velcheru Narayan Rao is a walking encyclopaedia of Telugu literature – from the medieval periods to now.Excerpts from an interview with the extraordinary scholar who was in Bangalore for a lecture recently.You journeyed far away from the heartland of Telugu – of its language and literature. Yet, your mind and memory are warm with smells and sights from home. That doesn’t come from just being a professor of Telugu. It can only be an outcome of a dynamic relationship.I left home 40 years ago to teach Telugu for Americans and do research. In that sense, I have been living Telugu all my life. I was never away from it. In fact, I became more involved with Telugu than when I was at home. I found all the books that I wanted at the library in Madison, Wisconsin, and at the University of Chicago. Also, I had friends who sent me a constant supply of books that I needed. I was always closely involved with Telugu traditions and literature. Every year I came to India to do my field work, which helped me keep in touch with the local scene. Living away from Andhra actually brought me closer to Andhra. The memory of home always becomes acute when you are away.You must have had a very informed childhood. Your recent book of poems, A Poem at the Right Moment, is put together mostly from your memory!I was born in a village. There were a lot of people who were interested in poetry. It was a part of one’s everyday life and conversation. I was closely associated with many of them. My friends in Eluru, where I later went to study, were interested in literature and poetry too. I had poets and scholars like Bommakanti, Singaracharya, and Srinivasacharya as my neighbours. Nearly all the major poets of Andhra were their friends. In their company, there was no Telugu poet of the time that I didn’t meet. It was a very intense engagement. I had very good teachers as well.Sanskrit is now forced to carry the burden of caste – it has come to be associated with Brahmin and Brahminism. Other writings too, for instance, Dalit and women’s literature, are ironically institutionalized. Aren’t these myopic visions dangerous to the free spirit of literature itself?Most traditional texts were written by Brahmins or other upper castes. But a lot of Dalits wrote/sang too. Oral literature was largely produced and controlled by the lower castes. Oral epics such as Palanti Katha, Katamaraju Katha and Balanagamma Katha were sung by the lower castes. The literary epics were propagated by Brahmins and other upper castes. But before modern education, oral epics were a part of cultural education as much as the literary epics. Every caste group had its own literature, and there was interaction between the written and oral literatures.Sanskrit is a very powerful language; its literature influenced the literary production of regional languages both in their written and oral forms. It is unfortunate that modern education dismissed the oral traditions as illiterate and uneducated. Even the modern Dalit leaders do not pay attention to their own oral poets and epic singers.Similarly women in both upper and lower caste families sang a number songs. For instance, they narrated several versions of the Ramayana, making a distinct ‘Women’s Ramayana’. These versions are going out of style among modern educated women. The printed literary versions of the Ramayana survive in books, and the oral women’s versions die.The literary texts that lie silent in books appear as lively versions when they are rendered orally. The oral rendering of written texts has been disappearing. This is a different kind of loss.It also seems like there is a vertical divide – between modern scholars and traditional Pandits. While the modern scholar believes that the Pandit is outdated, and fossilized, the Pandit feels the modern scholar doesn’t know enough. Isn’t it important for a dialogue to exist between these two groups?People who were traditionally trained have been marginalized. Now Ph.D.’s have taken over. But honestly traditional Pandits have more to offer than the Ph.D.’s who hold jobs in the universities as professors. When my students go to India for their research, they invariably go in search of Pandits, who are often not in universities. Many of them are doing small jobs in small colleges or even high schools, if they have a job at all.Unfortunately, the Telugu departments of universities at present are rather shallow. They suffer from a short supply of Pandits. This is due to our value judgement of Pandits. We dismiss them as outdated, superstitious, and incapable of doing anything other than memorizing old books. A real dialogue between Pandits and Ph.D.’s would be immensely helpful, but where are the Pandits?You have collaborated with so many scholars across the world – Sanjay Subrahmanyam, A.K. Ramanujan, David Shulman and several others. What has this experience meant to you? How difficult is it to translate from Telugu to English, considering that you have dealt with classical writers, Nannayya, Srinatha etc.?I have been collaborating with David Shulman for the last 25 years, and I worked with A.K. Ramanujan for a shorter time. Sanjay Subrahmanyam and I worked together on historical subjects. Knowledge from all our experiences comes together in our work. It goes without saying how much we enjoy it. Basically translation is only a label, David Shulman and I don’t do it mechanically. We try to pay attention to the beauty of both languages. Every word is a challenge and every meaning is a struggle. We agonize looking for the right tone and phrase. Our translations run into many drafts and several versions. For instance, in the Annamayya poem, “God doesn’t like stolen prayers,” the line that we have translated as “Try basket weaving” is not in the original exactly like that. To make the tone of the original poem suit the English language, we had to create this line. In yet another poem, “I’ll serve you as best as I can,” a longer line from the pallavi was shortened into a refrain. A good translation is not literal. For us, translation is something that should work in the receiving language, without losing the tone and essential meaning of the original.Do you think one has to make a clear distinction in translation between a verse of a poet like Peddana which is recited and a song of Annamayya which is sung? Without such a distinction, how could the reader of your translation understand the varied practices of Peddana and Annamayya?This is a difficult, but important question. In Telugu, Peddana is read out in a particular way, we may call it poetic articulation, to bring out the syntactic and semantic qualities of the poem.Such articulation varies from verse to verse. This is not singing, and neither is this recitation. One has to learn this from a learned teacher.In contemporary times, poets like Viswanatha Satyanarayana showed us how to read old Telugu texts.We do not succeed in translating the musical moves of a Telugu verse, which often appears in print in four lines metrically structured. We have preferred rather to take every semantic unit as an indication of a line break in our translation.Thus our translation of metrical four-line Telugu verse takes several lines in our translation. Songs (padams) like those of Annamayya and Kshetrayya are sung to a raga and tala. This is musical rendering. English does not sing the way Telugu does and ragas don’t translate.However, we try to suggest that Annamayya and Kshetrayya are sung in Telugu, by keeping the shape of the song on the printed page, with each of the stanzas (charanas) separated and using a brief part of the pallavi as refrain.When you read a poem from say, the 17th or 18th century, how right is it to ascribe 21st century views and theories on the poem and poet? Have they posed as obstacles in your work?A good translator from another culture sees in the poem a hidden one that the native readers may have lost awareness of. Once a translation is made of this poem into another language of another culture -- say English, in our case -- bridging the distance of space and time, the original itself is transformed for the native readers, who discover, to their surprise, a new poem in their original. This is not really a new poem, it is a lost poem under the burdens of Colonialist interpretations. We try to clear the poem from the sedimented reading habits and bring it to, what we believe is the real poem.The question you are asking also relates to problems of social values. When we read a literary text of an old period as a social document, we exercise a lot of care so we do not simplistically apply to it modern ideas of caste and gender. We believe a good poem transcends these issues.