http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/%E2%80%98Governments-insensitive-to-farmers%E2%80%99-woes%E2%80%99/article14015809.ece

The Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS) has slammed the Union and State governments for being “insensitive” and “indifferent” to the pathetic condition of farmers who are hit by drought, pest attack and low prices.Chamarasa Malipatil, KRRS State president, told presspersons here on Friday that the governments were behaving as if the deepening farm distress was unrelated to them even after more farmers committed suicides in recent days.“Most of the Bt cotton fields were completely destroyed in the pink bollworm attack despite the pest resistance claims by cotton seed producers. Cotton growers are in a critical condition as they have incurred huge losses. An independent team of cotton experts and another team of scientists from University of Agricultural Sciences, Raichur, have separately studied the issue and submitted their reports to government. But, there is no response so far. Suicides of distressed cotton growers are being reported. The government should hold seed companies responsible for the crop loss and compel them pay compensation to affected farmers so that the suicides by cotton growers could be prevented,” Mr. Malipatil said. He opposed the government’s decision to pay drought relief only to affected farmers having land under rain-fed areas. Mr. Malipatil said that farmers under irrigated areas, particularly those at tail-end parts of irrigation canals, too had suffered huge losses owing to drought.“The fields at tail-end parts of Tungabhadra Left Bank Canal and Narayanpur Right Bank Canal did not receive sufficient water this year owing to scarcity of water in Tungabhadra and Narayanpur reservoirs. These farmers had to cultivate cotton, chilly and other crops expecting rains. The drought destroyed their half-grown crops. Hence, drought relief should be extended to these farmers as well,” he said. Mr. Malipatil said that a State-level farmers’ conference was scheduled to be organised in Raichur on Sunday for pressuring governments to address farmers’ issues. KRRS, Jana Sangram Parishath, Grameena Krishi Cooli Karmikara Sanghatane, Bharat Gyan Vigyan Samiti, Hyderabad Karnataka Raitha Sangha, State Bt Cotton Eradication Committee and other organisations would participate.“Compensation to Bt crop loss; amendment to the Seeds Act, 1966, for incorporating issues related to genetic purity of the seed; and proper compensation to all drought-hit farmers will be the main focus of the conference” he said. The conference will be inaugurated by burning Bt cotton plants, he added.