http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Vijayawada/%E2%80%98United-AP-stood-second-in-agri-exports%E2%80%99/article14005121.ece

The Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry (ASSOCHAM) has, in its recent survey on agricultural product exports in the country, ranked united Andhra Pradesh second in the value of commodities exported through Agriculture Export Zones (AEZs) with the export value of nearly Rs. 2,890 crore.It has the highest share of about eight per cent after Rajasthan (72 per cent) in total net exports valued at over Rs. 38,300 crore in terms of States’ actual exports through AEZs. Besides, AP has the third highest share of about 14 per cent in actual investments made in AEZs after Rajasthan (31 per cent) and Maharashtra (25 per cent). For every Rs. 1 crore invested in AEZs, united AP could export vegetables, grapes, mangoes, mango pulp, chilli and gherkins worth Rs. 14 crore, according to the ASSOCHAM study.United AP has five AEZs namely Chittoor (mango pulp and vegetables), Krishna (mangoes), Guntur (chilli), Ranga Reddy, Medak and Mahabubnagar (mangoes and grapes) and Ranga Reddy, Mahabubnagar, Medak, Karimnagar, Warangal, Anantapur and Nalgonda (gherkins).The AEZs have attracted investments of nearly Rs. 207 crore and exported products worth around Rs. 2,891 crore. Export of mango pulp and fresh vegetables from Chittoor district accounted for a staggering 95.5 per cent of the actual exports from the united Andhra Pradesh as of February 2013.Speaking to The Hindu , Andhra Pradesh Chambers of Commerce and Industry Federation Executive Director P. Bhaskar Rao said that it was due to the stellar performance of food processing sector in Chittoor district that AP had earned the distinction of having the second highest value of exports.Though Rajasthan is a desert State, its strength in horticulture, particularly in the Ganga Nagar belt, enabled it register the highest value of agricultural exports.The facilitative role played by Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) helped the producers and processing industries in AEZs in registering the impressive growth.Value of commodities exported through Agriculture Export Zones stands at Rs. 2,890 croreUnited AP has the third highest share of 14 per cent of the actual investments made in AEZs