http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/%E2%80%98Most-RTI-appeals-can-be-solved-at-the-first-appellate-authority-level%E2%80%99/article14020398.ece

Shankar R. Patil, Commissioner, Karnataka Information Commission, has said that most of the appeals filed before the commission seeking information under the provisions of the Right to Information (RTI) Act can be redressed at the first appellate authority level itself if the powers vested with the authority are properly executed.Addressing a press conference after visiting the offices of Gulbarga Electricity Supply Company (GESCOM), Kalaburagi City Municipal Corporation, Regional Transport Office and the North Eastern Road Transport Corporation, Mr. Patil said that he had heard more than 7,540 cases in the last one year and 70 per cent of them could have been redressed at the first appellate authority level itself if clear directions had been issued to officials to provide the information sought by the applicants.Asked why the commission was punishing Public Information Officers and officials who failed to provide information to applicants and not taking action against the first appellate authority, Mr. Patil said that the authority was vested with judicial powers under the RTI Act and the commission could not take penal action against it.To another question, he said that nearly 30,000 cases were pending before the commission now and this was mainly due to the vacancy in the posts of four commissioners and the Chief Information Commissioner.Mr. Patil said that he had imposed a fine of Rs. 22.44 lakh in the past eight months and senior officials were punished for denying the people information sought under the RTI Act. He said that the commission would not close a case until information sought for was provided to the applicant.He admitted that despite the recommendations to the government to take disciplinary action against officials of the Kalaburagi City Corporation for failing to provide information to an applicant in 2009, action had not been initiated against them.These officials preferred to pay fine than providing the information sought for. One of the officials had retired, he said.Mr. Patil expressed satisfaction over GESCOM and the RTO displaying information about the RTI Act on notice boards. They had also maintained official records in the format required under the Act.However, as the city corporation and the NEKRTC had not maintained the records in the prescribed format, they have been advised to do so.