http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/%E2%80%98Banking-services-should-reach-all-households%E2%80%99/article13991050.ece

The New Year Awards, instituted by the Academy of General Education and SyndicateBank, were given away to four achievers for their contribution to different fields here on Saturday.The recipients were Prabhakar Joshy, Yakshagana artiste and critic; Allen C.A. Pereira, former chairman and managing director of Bank of Maharashtra; H. Sudarshan Ballal, chairman of Manipal Health Enterprises Pvt Ltd.; and G. Shankar, philanthropist and social worker.Speaking after receiving the award, Mr. Pereira said that banks and financial institutions had contributed to the growth of agriculture, industry, trade, services and infrastructure in the last five decades.But they faced the challenge of making banking and financial services accessible to all villages and households throughout the country. This was despite the success achieved under the Prime Minister’s Jan Dhan Yojana.The large unbanked and under-banked segments, particularly the small enterprises and industries, were crying for timely and adequate finance.The challenge was not so much about the dearth of banking knowledge and skills but about the lack of proactive attitude and empathy, necessary to reach out to the unbanked and under-banked. A detailed study of Boston Consulting Group in 2010 explained how by leveraging technology and rationalising processes, cost of financial inclusion could be contained and it could be a sustainable and reasonably profitable proposition over the medium and long term.Youngsters needed to get into banking and financial services not just for financial package but more as a mission to transform the lives of people, Mr. Pereira said.DiscourseMr. Joshy said that Yakshagana had for centuries created a liberal, dynamic, inclusive discourse and narrative that has a multi-layered message that was everlasting. The life and culture of Coastal Karnataka was dense, rich and diverse. He had thoroughly enjoyed being an art worker, activist, critic and performer. “Becoming Rama is difficult, being Ravana is an enjoyable challenge, being Dharmaraya is difficult but spiritually joyous,” he said.H.S. Ballal, president of Academy of General Education; T. Satish Pai, vice-president; Arun Shrivastava, managing director and CEO of SyndicateBank; and Ramdas Pai, chancellor of Manipal University, were present.Former bank official says small enterprises and industries are in need of finance