http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/%E2%80%98Chidambaram-solely-cleared-affidavit-in-Ishrat-Jehan-case%E2%80%99/article14133090.ece

The >second affidavit filed by the Home Ministry under the UPA government in the Ishrat Jehan case was solely cleared by the then Home Minister P. Chidambaram, an audit of the file notings of the time has revealed. Mr. Chidambaram has not denied this.Amid controversy that erupted after the former Home Secretary G.K. Pillai claimed that the reference of Jahan being a Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) was removed by Mr. Chidambaram, the MHA under the present NDA government has started re-examining the files. The file notings reveal that neither the then Attorney-General or the Law Ministry officials were consulted, when the affidavit was revised by Mr. Chidambaram. Officials said that file noting dated September 23, 2009, signed by then Home Secretary G.K. Pillai suggest so.>The first affidavit was filed by the Home Ministry before the Gujarat High Court in August 2009 and the second one was filed in September the same year.Mr. Chidambaram wrote on September 23, 2009, “As amended. Pls show clear copy before it is sent to court on the morning of 24/9”.Mr. Pillai has claimed that it was Mr.Chidambaram who himself drafted second affidavit without consulting the Home Ministry officials or the Intelligence Bureau.According to the file notings, Mr. Pillai did not raise any objection nor put his dissent on the file. “Clear copy is shown to HM. Pls take further action to have it file. Send copy to the Law Secretary and Attorney-General for information…” wrote Pillai.A senior government official said, “any affidavit has to be vetted by the AG or the Law Ministry, in this case it was not done.”Sonia defends party leaderA day after the former Home Minister P. Chidambaram came under fire from the BJP over changes made to the UPA government’s initial Ishrat Jehan affidavit, he found support from Congress chief Sonia Gandhi.“Chidambaram has already explained. We have been targeted since we were in power,” Ms. Gandhi said.