http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/%E2%80%98Telangana-outperforms-AP-in-IMR%E2%80%99/article14019471.ece

The latest population based survey, National Family Health Survey (NFHS-4) 2015-16, which was released by the Union Government a few days ago, has given clear indication of improvement of Infant Mortality Rate (IMR) levels for Telangana State.In fact, Telangana has managed to outperform Andhra Pradesh (AP) in the IMR, which is the mortality rate of infants for every 1,000 live births.According to the NFHS-4, the IMR for Telangana State (both urban has rural) is at 28 for every 1,000 live births. At the same time, average IMR (urban and rural) for AP is at 35. In urban Telangana, the IMR is at 20 while in rural areas, the IMR in Telangana is a bit higher at 35 deaths. In urban AP, the IMR was at 20 while in rural areas, Andhra Pradesh has an IMR of 40.Expert researchers and health care workers, however, point out that compared to other States and even developed countries, the IMR rates in Telangana and AP are very high.In States like Kerala, Tamil Nadu and even for that matter Karnataka, the neonatal mortality rate hovers between 10 and 18 infants for every 1,000 live births.According to NFHS-4, both Telangana and AP have very under-five mortality rate (U5MR) per every 1,000 live births. The average U5MR in Telangana, according to NFHS-4 is 32 while for AP it is at 41. Senior paediatricians pointed out that the high level of under-five mortality rates highlight the need to strengthen long-term care for infants soon after they are born.In this direction, the recently launched Telangana New Borne Action Plan, which is a part of the India Newborn Action Plan (INAP) launched by Government of India (GOI), could go a long way in improving things. Essentially, the TNAP and INAP outline ‘a targeted strategy for accelerating the reduction of preventable newborn deaths and stillbirths in the State and elsewhere in the country.’“Would-be mothers have to be take care right from conceiving stage till delivery and later after the birth. To a large extent we have been successful in providing this level of care in Telangana,” says Head, Paediatrics, Gandhi Hosptial, Dr. J. Venkteswara Rao.Till recently, the IMR levels in TS was between 33 and 35. “Earlier surveys in Telangana had indicated that IMR was at around 35. When we compare this to NFHS-4 survey that indicates that IMR is now 28, it is definitely heartening.However, when we look at the overall picture, we are way behind States like Kerala or even Karnataka, we are behind. In the end, we must aim to bring down the IMR to a single digit,” points out president, National Neonatology Forum (NNF) of India, AP and TS chapters, Dr. T Usha Rani.