http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/%E2%80%98Special-Economic-Status-for-AP-if-not-special-category%E2%80%99/article13986152.ece

Bharatiya Janata Party’s national secretary and AP In-charge Sidharth Nath Singh on Wednesday said that the Centre was sanctioning huge funds to the State government and it would release Rs.30, 926 crore very soon under the 14th Finance Commission grant. He said that the State was able to get huge funds and it was nothing but ‘Special Economic Status’ for the State. He held a high level meeting along with BJP State President Kambhampati Haribabu in Srikakulam and asked the party leaders to highlight the Union government’s help to Andhra Pradesh.Later speaking to the media, he said that the Central government had sanctioned many educational and central institutions of repute such as AIIMS, NIIT, Petroleum University, Girijan University and others to the State and allocated Rs.850 crore as a special assistance to bridge the gap in its revenue, post-bifurcation.“The 14th Finance Commission will sanction 74 per cent extra allocation when compared to the same in the previous years. The government will sanction a Central institution to Srikakulam, if the State government allocates land for its establishment,” said Mr. Sidharth.He hoped that BJP would penetrate into all the villages in the ensuing days while hoping that its new-gained strength would benefit its coalition partner TDP in the State. He assured that the party would insist for coordination meetings in the districts too since those were confined to State.BJP Kisan Morcha State President Pudi Tirupati Rao, BJP State Secretary Pydi Venugopalam, BJP senior leaders Savvana Umamaheswari, Reddi Narayana Rao, Kotagiri Narayana Rao and others participated in the meeting. They said that the party could develop its own network in majority of the villages in the district. Some of the local activists complained that the BJP was not given priority in State government developmental activities and there was no representation from the party in the Janmabhoomi committees. Mr. Sidharth who was convinced with their argument assured that their grievances would be discussed in the coordination meetings.The 14th Finance Commission will sanction 74 p.c. extra allocation to AP when compared to the same in the previous years- Sidharth Nath Singh,BJP national secretaryand AP In-charge