http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/%E2%80%98Make-agriculture-a-profitable-venture-to-attract-the-youth%E2%80%99/article13989429.ece

Minister of State for Agriculture Krishna Byre Gowda has emphasised the need for making agriculture profitable to attract the people, particularly the youth. He was addressing a session on the concluding day of a workshop titled ‘Yuvakara Nade Krishiya Kade’ organised by the University of Agricultural Sciences, Raichur (UAS-R), the Department of Agriculture and International Crops Research Institute for Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT).“Farmers are being hit hard by deepening agrarian crisis and are pushed out of the farm sector. The rural population, which was once fully engaged in agriculture, is now migrating to cities in search of jobs. We all should strive hard to turn the loss-making agriculture into a profit-making one so that those who had quit the farm sector could be attracted towards it and those who are thinking to quit could stay back. Agricultural universities and government officials in the Department of Agriculture have a pivotal role to play,” he said.Commending agricultural universities for their remarkable achievements in inventing advanced technologies and devising newer tools in farm sector, Mr. Byre Gowda called upon farmers to use those technologies and tools to achieve greater productivity with limited sources and reap profits. “Agriculture is a time-tested noble profession. The present crisis is a challenge and it is bound to be overcome soon. The future of agriculture is not bleak as it seems now. Farmers, particularly youth, should develop a positive approach towards agriculture and get involved in it with dedication,” he said.He reiterated his government’s commitment to the development of agriculture.“The government is making all possible efforts to address the issues that farmers are facing. We have established procurement centres to purchase farmers’ produces at minimum support prices. We have introduced online purchasing system at Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee yards to eliminate middlemen who were exploiting farmers in the market. We continue to stand firmly in support of the faming community,” he said.B.V. Naik, MP, presided over the event. N.S. Boseraju and Basavaraj Patil Itagi, MLCs; P.M. Salimath, Vice-Chancellor of UAS-R; B.V. Patil, former Vice-Chancellor and present Director of Education at UAS-R; Chamarasa Malipatil, State president of the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha; Hanumanagowda Belagurki, member of Agriculture Price Commission; and K. Krishnappa, scientist, ICRISAT, were present.