http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/%E2%80%98Chief-Minister-not-showing-enough-interest-in-getting-illegal-mining-cases-investigated%E2%80%99/article14013095.ece

Tapal Ganesh, mine owner, who fought illegal mining in Ballari district, has taken exception to Chief Minister Siddaramaiah not evincing interest in getting some illegal mining cases that are alleged to have happened during the erstwhile BJP regime, including the one where lease boundaries had been altered by way of a survey ordered at the behest of the former Minister G. Janardhan Reddy, investigated.“The boundaries of mining leases in Sandur taluk, along the inter-State border, granted by the State government, were altered by carrying out a survey in 2008, at the behest of Mr. Janardhan Reddy, who was Minister in-charge of the district then. Even the Congress’ fact-finding committee, headed by V.S. Ugrappa, has pointed out this aspect in its report.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), probing into the alleged illegal mining activities of Obulapuram Mining Company, owned by Mr. Janardhan Reddy, has found that around 29 lakh tonnes of iron ore from mines on the Karnataka side, were mined and taken over by this particularly mining company. Such being the case, I am at a loss to understand why is the Congress government hesitating to get the issue investigated and bring the guilty to book,” he said.Speaking to presspersons here on Thursday, Mr. Ganesh also expressed concern over officials of the State government not taking the issue seriously (whenever he broached the subject), stating that it was connected to the ISB and that the matter was in Supreme Court.“My apprehension is that such an attitude on the part of the officials would put an important issue in cold storage. I also fear that attempts are being made to protect the guilty,” he regretted.“Mr. Siddaramaiah, who took out a padayatra when he was Leader of Opposition, had stated that the Congress, after coming to power, would not spare anybody who had indulged in illegal mining and that it would recover every pie from them. Why is he not initiating action now,” he asked.He said that he would write to the Governor to direct the State government to get all these issues investigated and punish the guilty.