http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/%E2%80%98Finish-work-on-three-roads-by-March-end%E2%80%99/article13977880.ece

District in-charge Minister M.B. Patil has directed officials of the city corporation to complete work on at least three roads under the master plan by March-end.Chairing a review meeting of the city’s development at the Deputy Commissioner’s office here on Friday, he said that these three were important roads that would ease the traffic problem of the city to a large extent, if they are widened under the ongoing master plan project.“On April 2, these roads should be ready for inauguration and no delay would be accepted,” he said and warned them not to compromise on quality in a hurry to complete the job.Deputy Commissioner D. Randeep, who was also present, informed the meeting that the tender process and completed and drainage works on Shivaji circle to Basaveshwara circle has already started.He informed that the contractors have been asked to maintain the drainages for two years.Makbul Bagwan, MLA, asked Mr. Randeep to start the renovation of M.G. Circle and ensure parking facility at LBS Market.Mr. Patil said that if encroachment on pavements and footpaths are removed, it would also solve traffic problem.“All encroachments of footpaths and pavements of the city must be identified and submit the report within 10 days,” he said.Based on the report, action would be taken against those who have occupied on the public property.Mr. Randeep said that though the district administration already has the list encroached areas, additional details would be given in ten days.Expressing dissatisfaction over improper garbage disposal system, he directed the officials of the Corporation not to show any laxity in cleanliness. If required, rope in private agencies for disposing garbage.Later in the day, Mr. Patil inaugurated the newly introduced e-administration system in Revenue Department.Supporting the demand for formulating ant-superstition law, D.G. Sagar, State convener of the Karnataka Rajya Dalit Sangharsha Samiti, has expressed confidence that the Congress government would bring such law during its tenure.Addressing presspersons here on Saturday, he said that the government should clearly distinct between belief and superstition as many still do not have clarity on it.“At the same time, the government should also take those people into confidence who have certain objections over the law,” he said.Mr. Sagar hoped that the law would also include and ban the practice of Made Snana where devotees roll over the leftovers of ‘upper caste’ people.With regard to implementation of Justice Sadashiva committee report on providing internal reservation to Dalits, he said that all Dalit associations had been demanding the government to implement the report.He alleged that the government was going slow on implementing the Justice Sadashiv committee report on internal reservation and urged for speedy implementation.Earlier, he accused the Union government of trying to create communal tension in the society.Y.C. Mayur, district convener, said that considering the contribution of Mr. Sagar in working for the welfare of Dalits and oppressed class, a book in his memory, ‘Dalita lokada Dhruvatare’ ( the polar star of Dalits), would be released at a grand function on January 5 at Darbar high school ground.It also seeks implementation of the Justice Sadashiva committee report