http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/%E2%80%98Theatre-should-be-transparent-and-simple%E2%80%99/article13991405.ece

“Theatre is magic. It should create an illusion. It is created by the chemistry between the actor and the audience. That magic cannot be created by technology,” says Sreenath Nair, the director of ‘Mariamma’, the opening Malayalam play at the International Theatre Festival of Kerala (ITFoK), which will get under way on Sunday.Mr. Nair, who is a senior lecturer at the School of Fine Arts and Performance Arts, University of Lincoln, the U.K., says he believes in transparent and simple theatre.Chakyar’s magic“Spectacular theatre was a Western concept. But we have vibrant living traditions. Absence of spectacles is re-visualised by the audience here. We have the culture of the Chakyar, who can create Himalayas with his body and gestures. With his lean body, the Chakyar creates the illusion of the gigantic Ravana. The thrust is not on physicality, but on the illusion.”“I want to shed all spectacular elements from theatre. The play, ‘Mariamma’, is grounded. Characters express emotions truthfully,” says Mr. Nair, the founder of Playwrights Theatre group.“For me theatre should be tactile, where we can hear the breathing of the actor, see his sweat. For me, theatre is a place that enhances the human content.”On multimediaOn using multimedia in theatre, Mr. Nair says though theatre is a part of life, he sees it as a space that is aloof from life.“It is a place for rescue. Theatre should be a place where people get something they lack in their daily life. We are trapped with visual processing. Theatre cannot be pretentious. You cannot cheat the audience. I am searching what I should shed to become truthful,” he adds.Place in historyWritten in 1878, ‘Mariamma’ by Kocheeppan Tharakan heralds the commencement of the modern era in Malayalam theatre. The play was stylistically innovative and departed from the then existing theatre genre in the State, which was heavily influenced by Sankrit plays.“I was fascinated with the structure of ‘Mariamma’. We are familiar with the alienation technique of Bertolt Brecht, who used songs to detach the audience from emotional intensification, and that of Henrik Ibsen, who used intensive dramatic moments. But characters in ‘Mariamma’ demand something in between. Songs have been used as part of the storyline.”The play is also a social satire, criticising the family life and the secondary status of the daughter-in-law in Syrian Christian families in the State.