http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Vijayawada/%E2%80%98Unstinted-support-needed-to-make-Amaravati-century%E2%80%99s-best-city%E2%80%99/article14022404.ece

Even while claiming that there are no parallels in the world to the success of land pooling scheme (LPS), the government on Tuesday aired apprehensions on public support for the capital project.The government expects unrestrained support from the public for its ambitious capital city project at a time when farmers are up in arms against the provision in the draft master plan released by the AP Capital Region Development Authority (CRDA). It was evident in Governor E.S.L. Narasimhan’s speech at the Republic Day celebrations in the city on Tuesday.“The government extends its heart-felt thanks to farmers who came forward to be part of this dream [capital city project],” Mr. Narasimhan said, adding: “I’m sure Amaravati will emerge as one of the best cities of the 21st century. However, it is possible only through the unstinted support of the people of the State.” The word “unstinted support” raised many eyebrows, while Opposition parties saw it as a step backward by the government. Communist Party of India (Marxist) State secretary P. Madhu said the government had failed to digest developments such as unrest among farmers and the conditions imposed by Singapore firms.“The government went back on its promises to farmers in the capital city area. It led to unrest among them. They are vehemently opposing the provisions in the master plan.Demands such as 99-year lease and allotment of land to Singapore firms cast the government in poor light. In this backdrop, the government is not confident of completing the project,” he felt.Naidu’s plainspeakFor the record, Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu had virtually put farmers in the capital city area on notice by saying that their land values would come crashing if they continued to oppose the master plan proposals.Indicating that the unrest in the capital city region will result in the government shifting its focus to other places, Mr. Naidu said farmers should realise that development took place wherever the government concentrates.“The entire business was concentrated in the Abids area when N.T. Rama Rao was there. I took it to Cyberabad. Now, Abids is history, and Cyberabad is a reality,” he said.I’m sure Amaravati will emerge as one of the best cities of the 21st century.E.S.L. Narasimhan,Governor