http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/%E2%80%98Make-Kannada-must-in-professional-courses%E2%80%99/article14003195.ece

A committee headed by Hi. Chi. Boralingaiah has recommended making Kannada mandatory in professional courses, including medical and engineering, in Karnataka from the next academic year of 2016-17 for at least two semesters.The panel, on Saturday, submitted a 24-page report to Higher Education Minister T.B. Jayachandra and recommended separate Kannada textbooks for Kannada and non-Kannada students pursuing professional courses such as medical, engineering, agriculture, and law. The panel members — comprising vice-chancellors of Visvesvaraya Technological University, Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences, Karnataka State Law University, University of Agricultural Sciences-Bangalore, and Karnataka Veterinary, Animal and Fisheries University, Bidar — recommended separate teaching staff for Kannada and non-Kannada speaking students.For the benefit of non-Kannadigas, the panel said lecturers having expertise both in Kannada and English should be appointed. Prof. Boralingaiah, former Vice-Chancellor of Kannada University, Hampi, said studying Kannada would help familiarise students with the language, culture, and history.Noting that learning “should not become a punishment for non-Kannada students”, the panel recommended simple textbooks. While 50 per cent of the syllabus should be uniform in all universities, the rest should be in accordance with the regional dialects, (for example, Dharwad Kannada, coastal Kannada, Kalaburagi Kannada, and so on). The panel suggested that universities earmark a fixed amount from their annual grants for teaching Kannada, drafting textbooks and promotion of the language. It told colleges and universities to give up their liberal policy of permitting students to study any one of the Indian languages instead of Kannada.Whether in conventional universities or professional courses, teaching Kannada should be made mandatory and this is the unanimous opinion of the panelHi. Chi. Boralingaiah,Former Vice-Chancellor of Kannada University, Hampi