http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/%E2%80%98Corporations-should-be-unified-again%E2%80%99/article14012730.ece

With their financial situation deteriorating, the three municipal corporations of Delhi should be unified again, said a senior BJP office-bearer in the North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Thursday.Presenting the budget for 2016-2017, Standing Committee chairperson Mohan Bhardwaj said the three civic bodies that were formed after the unified Municipal Corporation of Delhi was split in 2012, should once again be brought together.The BJP had opposed the trifurcation of the MCD, which was carried out by then Congress Chief Minister Sheila Dikshit, said Mr. Bhardwaj. The new corporations were expected to have a budget deficit, starting off with hundreds of crores in the red. The North Corporation began with a deficit of Rs.760 crore in 2012-2013, said Mr. Bhardwaj.“The corporations were never given the financial support that they needed to get started. We are now facing bankruptcy. The corporations should be unified again,” said Mr. Bhardwaj.Apart from additional liabilities in terms of triplicate administrative costs, the corporations also have a geographical mismatch. South Delhi has bigger revenue resources, while North and East have lesser income but bigger liabilities in the form of hospitals that they run.Blaming the Delhi government for the financial crisis, Mr. Bhardwaj said if the government had paid the corporation its due, it would have had Rs.538 crore surplus instead of the Rs.1,750 crore deficit it has currently.The MCD was split up by the Congress government to improve administration by making smaller corporations that would be more accessible for locals. However, the trifurcation led to mounting deficits and a financial crisis that has hit salary payments.Though the BJP opposed the trifurcation, its voice against the move grew quieter once it won the elections to all three corporations in 2012. Mr. Bhardwaj had introduced a resolution asking for unification last year, but the State BJP leadership had put the issue on the backburner. The resolution was never passed.The MCD was split up by the Congress government to improve administration