http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/%E2%80%98Discover-Invent-and-Make-in-India%E2%80%99/article13980797.ece

Nobel laureates attending the 103 Indian Science Congress felt the need for India to increase its budgetary allocation for research and development (R and D) and lay more thrust on indigenous innovations and inventions.At a media interaction programme with Nobel laureates organised by the University of Mysore on the sidelines of the congress here on Monday, Particle Physicist David J. Gross suggested that the Prime Minister’s “Make in India” slogan be replaced with “Discover, Invent and Make in India”.Before “Making in India”, Prof. Gross said there was a need to “Invent in India.” “In order to invent in India, you should have discoveries in India” he said, adding that India should have to focus on “new inventions, new technologies and new products that can compete on the world stage”.Winner of the Nobel prize in Chemistry during 2011, Dan Schechtman continued with Prof. Gross’ line of argument and stressed on innovating in India. There was also a need for entrepreneurship and start-ups that can make products out of the innovations taking place in universities and research centres, he added.Invest in R & DProf. Gross said investment in R & D was crucial for a country to develop. Though India’s economy and GDP had doubled in the last 10 years, the government’s financial allocation for R & D has not increased much. Despite successive Prime Ministers promising to increase the funding during every Indian Science Congress since the last 15 years, the growth has just been a “flat curve”, Prof. Gross regrettedProf. Schechtman said India also needs more human resources in science and engineering. With a view to encouraging more youth to take up studies in science, he said the subject should be taught to students at a very young age – kindergarten and early primary school. If science is taught early, the students will begin to understand and like science, he argued.The other scientists participating in the interaction included Sir John B. Gurdon, a developmental biologist and Nobel prize winner in Physiology; Serge Haroche, a French physicist who won the Nobel prize in Physics; and Manjul Bhargava, the Indian-origin Mathematics Professor who won the Fields Medal.