http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/%E2%80%98Commence-work-on-Tunga-canal-modernisation-immediately%E2%80%99/article14002467.ece

Members of the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS) staged a protest here on Thursday urging the government to commence the work on modernisation of Tunga canal at the earliest.Addressing the protest meet, H.R. Basavarajappa, working president of KRRS, said that modernisation of the canal would ensure availability of ample water to farmers in the command area.The reservoir was constructed in 1955 across Tunga river. The project was commissioned the same year. However, the canals here have not been repaired since then. As the canal has been dilapidated in many places, the water being flown through wasn’t reaching the agricultural fields in the tail-end region, he said.The State government had decided to modernise the left bank canal, the length of which is 102 km.The right bank canal flows across 54 km. Both these canals irrigate about 7,000 hectares of land. A sum of Rs. 239 crore had been set aside for the modernisation work, he said.In the first phase, the plan was to modernise the left bank canal up to a distance of 34 km and the right bank canal up to a distance of 26 km at a cost of Rs. 127 crore.The Karnataka Neeravari Nigam Ltd. had even completed the tender process for the work.The commencement of modernisation work had been put off owing to enforcement of model code of conduct for the Legislative Council election. Since the zilla and taluk panchayat elections are likely to be held shortly, there was every possibility of the commencement of work getting delayed further, he said.As the release of water into the canals would be stopped during modernisation work, standing crops in the command area might get dried up during summer. To avoid such a situation, the government should initiate measures to commence modernisation work immediately, and ensure its speedy completion, he said.Social activist Kadidal Shamanna, functionaries of KRRS T.M. Chandrappa, Hittur Raju and Jagadeesh took part in the protest. Later, the protesters submitted a memorandum to the Chief Engineer of Upper Tunga Project in this regard.As canal is in poor condition, water is not reaching fields at some places.H.R. Basavarajappa,Working president,Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha