http://www.thehindu.com/features/downtown/%E2%80%98She-wants-to-win-an-Olympic-medal-in-fencing%E2%80%99/article13990311.ece

 At the tender age of seven, Bhavani Devi competed in a fencing tournament; but she did not advance beyond the preliminary round. She broke down, but, thanks to encouragement by her mother and teachers at school, she continued to pursue competitive fencing.Since then, it has been a remarkable and challenging journey for her. She is now training in the United States of America and competing in tournaments across the globe with the sole intention of representing India at the Olympics in Brazil. “She is a very determined girl. The only thing that is occupying her mind is to win an Olympic gold in fencing (sabre),” says her mother Ramani.Bhavani was in the city recently to receive a cheque for Rs. 2 lakh from Chief Minister Jayalalithaa. “Normally people who spend several hours in air travel complain of jet lag when they return home, but after a break of just two hours, she reports for her practice session,” says K.Gopinath, her yoga guide, who taught her asanas to improve her stamina, stance, stretch, strength and skill. Bhavani studied at Muruga Dhanushkodi school, a government-aided institution near her home in Old Washermanpet; and she moved to Thalassery, Kerala, where she completed BBA. When she was there, she was coached in fencing by Sagar S.Lagu.Ms. Bhavani has competed at fencing tournaments across the globe and has won several medals in different categories. “We have spent as much as we can. I have even pledged my only remaining gold chain, but my only wish is that she should win in the Olympics,” Ramani says.“She is capable and confident, but is always anxious about the fate of her training programmes. She will be able to perform much better if she is not worried about funding,” she adds. Speaking to The Hindu Downtown over phone from Amsterdam, on her way from the United States to Turkey to compete in the World Cup, Bhavani says that without her parents’ support and encouragement, she could not have come this far.“We need support and encouragement from society to bring laurels to the country –our only goal,” she says, about the expectations of athletes like her.