http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/%E2%80%98My-husband%E2%80%99s-murderers-should-not-be-allowed-to-go-scot-free%E2%80%99/article14009944.ece

“Whatever investigations you do, you cannot get me back my husband with whom I lived for 50 years. This pain will remain with me. But all that I expect is that the murderers of my husband should not be allowed to go scot-free. They must be nabbed and brought to book…”These were the poignant words of Umadevi, 67-year-old wife of slain scholar M.M. Kalburgi, amidst growing public concern over the delay in nabbing the killers.Come January 30, 150 days will have passed since Kalburgi was assassinated at his Dharwad residence. But his murderers are yet to be traced and their identity yet to be established though the authorities have been repeatedly stating that the culprits would be nabbed at the earliest.The incident, which is being allegedly linked to the assassination of rationalists Govind Pansare and Narendra Dhabolkar in Maharashtra, has generated ideological and political heat with progressive writers and associations describing it as an act of “intolerance”. However, Ms. Umadevi, who has turned philosophical, has chosen not to hazard any guess when the investigation is on.In an interview with The Hindu at her Kalyananagar residence in Dharwad, where the writer was murdered, Ms. Umadevi shared her views on the murder and her life after.Q. Your husband’s killers are yet to be nabbed five months after the incident. Are you upset over the delay?It is our fate. In the first place, we never ever imagined he [Kalburgi] will be murdered. Similarly, initially after the tragedy, we thought that the murderers would be nabbed quickly. But again it is fate that they are yet to be traced. But now I am not looking at the timeframe. Let it happen (tracing of culprits) when it happens... But all that I expect is that the murderers be traced and punished. The case should not be closed.Some sections suspect the role of rabid right-wing groups. Do you suspect anybody?I do not suspect anybody as my husband did not have enmity with anyone. He was a sober and soft-spoken person, who never hurt or antagonised anybody. It is shocking to know that such a person was murdered. On that fateful day (August 30), when they (murderers) came, neither me nor my husband suspected that they had come to kill him. Otherwise, we could have tried to protect ourselves.Did your husband ever fear for his life?No. My husband used to tell me often that he would live for another 15 years. He wanted to focus on literary work, especially helping others in their works.How are you coping with the tragedy?I still feel his presence in the house. I have placed his photo where he used to sit and talk to visitors. He had a good sense of aesthetics and wanted things to be arranged in a proper way in the house. I am trying to keep the house as it was when he was alive. I have not displaced even a single item.What are your future plans?There are three unpublished works of my husband which I want to publish. A drama on Kitturu kingdom titled Kitturu Bandaya; an anthology of poems, Neeraaga Ninteeni Neeradisi; and of course the eighth volume of his research series Marga-8.We want to bring out Marga-8 on his next birthday on November 28 while the other two will be published before that.This is fate. The pain of this tragedy will remain with me all my life.Umadevi, wife of the slain writerUmadevi plans to publish three of Kalburgi’s literary works before his next birthday