http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/%E2%80%98Cellphone-social-media-destroying-marriages%E2%80%99/article14013411.ece

Radhika (named changed) was yet to fully comprehend the bliss of a married life when her world came crashing down. Within 15 days of the wedding, her husband applied for a divorce. The reason cited was that she was spending more time on the cellphone chatting with friends.In another case, Madhavi (name changed) had to go through a similar situation when she was divorced by her husband who alleged that she was always online chatting with friends even past midnight.Both the cases were reported in the recent times and the husbands suspected the fidelity of their spouses and held the cellphone and the social media responsible for the discord.Instances of marital conflict have been on the rise since the last two years. In many cases, cellphone and social media have been cited as prime reasons.In 2014, the total number of cases registered under various categories at the Family Counselling Centre (FCC) of the Social Work Department in Andhra University was 492. About 202 cases were put under domestic violence. Out of them, about 40 cases pertain to discord due to excessive use of cellphone or social media.In 2015, the total number of cases was 465. Of them, cases under domestic violence were 240, with about 50 relating to cellphone and social media.The other reasons that contributed largely to marital discord were extramarital affair, and alcohol or drug addiction.In 2014, the total number of extramarital affair cases was 70. The number of alcohol and drug addiction cases was 148. In 2015, the figures were 65 and 114.This indicates that while extramarital affair and alcohol cases are on the decline, marital conflicts as a result of obsession to cellphone and social media are shooting up.According to D. Varalakshmi of the FCC, addiction to cellphone and social media is not limited to the upper and middle class segments of society. It is very much relevant even among those in the lower strata of society.“Today, almost everyone owns a cellphone and apps like Whatsapp and Internet are available in the phones,” says Ms. Varalakshmi.Another noteworthy trend is fall in the number of cases pertaining to demand for more dowry and rise in cases of harassment by wife.Dowry demand cases have dropped from 61 in 2014 to 30 in 2015. At the same time, cases of harassment by wife have gone up from 6 in 2014 to 25 in 2015, says K. Kanaka Mahalakshmi of the FCC.“Increase in cases of harassment by wife is due to degrading family values and commercialisation of marriage. Such cases are more prevalent in families where both husband and wife are working members,” says Arjun, professor and HoD of Social Welfare Department, Andhra University.