http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/%E2%80%98SC-should-decide-on-the-issue-of-jurisdiction-in-Delhi%E2%80%99/article13989092.ece

With the Centre declaring the Commission of Inquiry set up by the AAP government to probe the alleged irregularities in the DDCA as null and void, legal experts feel that the issue of jurisdiction of the Delhi government should be decided by the highest court of the country.“The sooner it is done, the better will it be for the people of the Capital,” former Lok Sabha Secretary-General P.D.T. Achary told The Hindu on Friday. He said the “irreconcilable differences” between the Central and Delhi governments were affecting governance in the Capital, with confusion prevailing about almost every major decision.Mr. Achary said that since the Delhi government was not able to exercise the powers conferred on it by the Constitution, it would be better if the issue of jurisdiction is settled by the Supreme Court. “Until that happens, the two governments will continue to be at each other’s throat,” he said.Despite the Union Home Ministry’s order terming the Commission of Inquiry as unconstitutional and illegal, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has said the Commission will go ahead with the probe. He said the Commission had been appointed in accordance with law and asked the Union government to approach the judiciary if it was aggrieved.Supreme Court’s advocate-on-record T.L. Garg said the Centre’s decision in such matters was final and binding, unless proved to be based on wrong understanding of law. He said the Ministry of Home Affairs should approach the appropriate judicial forum to get the issue settled, which would also remove confusion about the respective powers of the two governments.“The AAP government has been at loggerheads with the Centre from Day 1. This state of affairs will continue for the next four years. Such a dispute must come to an end in the interest of governance of Delhi,” said Mr. Garg.After the Delhi government appointed the panel under the Commissions of Inquiry Act, 1952, through a notification on December 22, former Solicitor-General Gopal Subramanium, who heads the Commission, had stated that its terms of reference had set out to obtain a “level of fairness and objectivity” in the inquiry.When The Hindu tried to contact Mr. Subramanium on Friday, his personal staff said he was away in Mumbai.The tussle between the Central and Delhi governments over jurisdiction and bureaucratic appointments has already been taken to the Delhi High Court, where a number of cases have been filed after the Home Ministry’s notification of May 21 last year gave absolute powers to the Lieutenant-Governor for appointing bureaucrats in the Capital.The matters pending in the High Court include those of the appointment of the chief of the Anti-Corruption Branch, AAP’s case against Reliance India Limited, appointment of power discom directors, Commission of Inquiry on CNG fitness scam and the increase in circle rates.