http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Coimbatore/%E2%80%98Potential-high-for-technical-textiles%E2%80%99/article14013925.ece

Technical textiles industry is projected to grow at 20 per cent year-on-year and the segment’s potential is largely untapped in the country, said Union Minister of State for Textiles Santosh Kumar Gangwar here on Thursday.The government had announced 15 per cent capital subsidy for investments in technical textiles under the Amended Technology Upgradation Fund Scheme. The Centre of Excellence for Industrial Textiles/Home Textiles at PSG College of Technology would have plug-and-play facilities (focus incubation centre) for potential entrepreneurs in technical textiles, he said.The Ministry is streamlining issues at Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International School of Textiles and Management here and has worked out a plan to strengthen the institute. It has formed a panel of guest lecturers so that students are not affected, according to Textile Commissioner Kavita Gupta.She said that demand for technical textiles takes a leap when the monthly per capita income was at about Rs. 11,000. A country’s economic growth was determined by industrial growth and the Centre of Excellence here for industrial textiles would provide textile solutions required for all the industries. There would be an agreement between the Centre of Excellence and the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Institute here so that the students of the institute could make use of the facilities.Anu Garg, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Textiles, said the Centre of Excellence was part of the Technology Mission for Technical Textiles. From domestic growth to export to import substitution, the segment had huge potential in the country. The industry should harness the facilities created through the Centres of Excellence for technical textiles. “The industry should leverage on the focus incubation facilities and the centres should continuously update, make cost effective products and develop prototypes,” she said. There was a need for greater interaction between the centres and the industry.L. Gopalakrishnan, managing trustee of PSG College of Technology, said the Centre of Excellence at the institute had state-of-the-art facilities and production lines for wet wipes and coir mats.R. Rudramoorthy, principal of the college, said the centre would concentrate more on products such as filters used in industries. “We are working with the processing industry in Tirupur where filters are imported,” he said.