http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/%E2%80%98Youth-should-use-vote-as-weapon-to-bring-in-good-governance%E2%80%99/article14020621.ece

he sixth National Voters’ Day was celebrated on a grand scale across the district on Monday. A huge rally led by Collector Yogitha Rana was taken out from DSA ground to Gandhi Chowk and to Rajiv Gandhi Auditorium to enlighten the voters on the importance of voting.Addressing the gathering later, the Collector said that the future of the country largely depends on the youth, and therefore they should use their vote as a weapon to bring in a good government and governance. She appealed to every citizen who attained 18 years of age to get enrolled in the voters’ list.The district stood first in the Aadhaar linkage with voter IDs, and hence it secured compliments, she said, expressing hope that proxy voting in polling would be avoided. She stressed the need of creating awareness on the use of voting and wearing a helmet while driving two-wheelers at every college.Joint Collector A. Ravinder Reddy said that at every college, one lecturer was appointed as nodal officer to encourage students enlist their names in the electoral list. Required applications were made available for enrolment and also for changes, if need be, he said.Superintendent of Police S. Chandrashekar Reddy suggested to the voters to use their vote in a free and fair manner. The police machinery was always ready to provide security for the smooth conduct of elections, he said.The officials later honoured senior citizens Nagamma, 97, Gangubai, 90, Vithobha, 90, and Mallamma, 95, who cast vote in every election after the Constitution came into effect.Karimnagar Special Correspondent adds: Students, youth and NCC cadets actively participated in a 3K run organised on the occasion of National Voters’ Day in Karimnagar town on Monday.District Judge Naga Maruthi Sharma flagged off the 3K run from SRR Government Arts and Science College in the town. The rally converged into a meeting on the premises of the Collectorate office. On the occasion, Justice Sharma administered the pledge to all the participants.Earlier, Justice Sharma, Collector Neetu Prasad, Superintendent of Police D. Joel Davis, Joint Collector Pausumi Basu, DRO T. Veerabrahmaiah and others garlanded the statue of Mahatma Gandhi and paid floral tributes.Later, addressing the gathering, the district Judge called upon the youth, who attained the age of 18 years, to register their name in the electoral rolls. He said that the right to vote was the constitutional right of every citizen. He also appreciated the district administration for removing more than 3 lakh voters whose names were entered twice in the list.Collector Neetu Prasad said that they were taking all measures to avoid mistakes in the voters list and removing the names which were entered twice. SP Joel Davis told the people to utilise their voting right to elect their leaders.On this occasion, the dignitaries felicitated senior citizens. They also distributed prizes to the winners of essay writing, elocution and rangoli competitions.Adilabad Special Correspondent adds: Adilabad district in-charge Judge, Justice Suneetha Kunchala, on Monday appealed to all eligible youth to enrol themselves in the voters’ list. Flagging off a rally organised by students in connection with the sixth National Voters’ Day celebration here, she wanted all the youngsters who have reached the age of 18 to be part of the nation building process.Collector M. Jagan Mohan urged parents to encourage their wards to enrol as voters. He said this was necessary for a healthy democracy.Justice Kunchala and the Collector distributed electors photo identity cards to newly enrolled voters, besides felicitating them as well as veterans. Municipal chairperson R. Manish and District Revenue Officer D. Sanjeev Reddy also participated in the event.