http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Visakhapatnam/%E2%80%98Girijans-terrorised-for-opposing-bauxite-mining%E2%80%99/article14009882.ece

The Girijans were given the impression of being taken to a Janmabhoomi programme where they would receive many benefits. They were also asked to bring with them their Aadhaar and ration cards.But the men among them ended up in police custody and the women were not allowed to meet them.This was how the police picked up several Girijan men from villages around Jerrela for their alleged involvement in the murder of TDP leader Sagina Venkataramana and held them in custody for several days.The TDP leader was murdered by the Maoists at Jerrela on January 5. FIRs were registered on January 14 and those in custody were produced in court and sent to remand only at the intervention of Vice-Chairman of National Commission for Scheduled Tribes Ravi Thakur.Vandala Rama Rao, Korabu Sanyasi Padal, Korabu Sanyasi Rao, Vandalam Mohana Rao, Vandala Mohana Rao of Kondrapalli, Adapa Vishnumurthy, and Ugrangi Prasad of Jerrela, along with CPI(M) leader Chikku Ashok, were arrested and remanded.On Tuesday, Vandalam Chinnabbayi, father of Vandalam Mohana Rao; Parvatamma, wife of Vandala Rama Rao; Mutyalamma, wife of Vandala Mohana Rao; Vandala Sanyasamma, mother of Mohana Rao; Lakshmamma, mother of Korabu Sanyasi Rao, and others poured out their pain and anguish over the fate meted out to the men in their families only because they did not like the government’s move to go ahead with bauxite mining in the Visakha Agency.“Early in the morning of January 8, we were asked us to come to Jerrela to participate in a Janmabhoomi programme. We were taken in a bus to Jerrela, but there was no sign of any meeting there. After making us wait for two hours, they told the men to board the bus. When we also tried to board the vehicle, we were pushed out. Our men were taken to Chintapalle and from there to G.K. Veedhi and we followed. There too we were treated rudely and not allowed to meet our men. We stayed on the road at G.K. Veedhi for three days pleading and arguing with the police to allow us to see our men. Families of those brought from other villages were allowed to meet their men at the station,” family members of those arrested said. Sanyasamma is a widow with three sons and three daughters. With Mohana Rao’s arrest, there was no one in the house to perform the marriage of the eldest daughter.Chinnabbayi is in his late sixties and is almost in tears while explaining the fate of his son, nephew Rama Rao and grandson Sanyasi Rao.Rights violationCPI (M) State Secretariat member Ch. Narasinga Rao and district secretary K. Lokanadham said that the Girijans were held illegally and their rights violated just because they opposed bauxite mining. “The TDP Government is hell-bent on going ahead with bauxite mining and terrorising ordinary Girijans so that opposition to bauxite mining is suppressed,” they said.The CPI(M) would continue to support the Girijans in their agitation, they asserted.