http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/%E2%80%98Regret-not-being-able-to-improve-hostel-facilities%E2%80%99/article14011040.ece

Outgoing Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) Vice-Chancellor S.K. Sopory considers making the campus completely barrier-free for differently-abled students the biggest achievement of his tenure.However Prof. Sopory, who demits office on January 27 after completing five years as the JNU V-C, regrets that he was not able to improve hostel facilities on campus. Till the new V-C is elected, Rector Prasenjit Sen will be the Acting V-C.“Being the JNU V-C was a pleasant experience for me, a lot different from my role as a scientist. I think I have done whatever I could do in my capacity as the V-C, but I regret not being able to improve hostel facilities on campus,” he told journalists.“We had funds for the past two years, but I wasn’t able to get permission for construction for over 20 months despite all the support I got from the L-G, DDA, etc. ...The plan has got stuck again with the Union Ministry of Environment and Forests,” he added.“Initially we had asked for cutting of trees, which is a normal thing, but they kept saying that it comes under different Ridge areas. Then, we were told to go to the Ridge Management Board, which comes under the Chief Secretary. The Board, I understand, had a meeting two months back, during which the proposal was cleared. However, the University hasn’t received any communication.”On things he was able to accomplish, Prof. Sopory added: “I feel proud that we were able to make JNU a completely barrier-free campus for the differently-abled. Starting Wednesday, we will also start a bus service for students inside the campus.”While talking about differently-abled students, Prof. Sopory mentioned Akshansh Gupta, a 95 per cent disabled scholar who completed his PhD from the varsity a few months back.“Akshansh is one such example. There are many talented students in the University, who are beating the odds to perform well in life.”Confessing that his five-year long tenure saw six student hunger strikes, Prof. Sopory noted that a students’ union, in any institution, plays a very important role and he encourages that as long as the academic activities do not suffer.“I have never discouraged students from protesting or talking about issues they strongly feel about. I think they should be given a space to express themselves,” said Prof. Sopory.It was during his tenure that the ban on students’ union elections in the University was lifted.Vice-Chancellor of JNU, S.K. Sopory, demits office on January 27 after a five-year tenure