http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/%E2%80%98NDA-will-stand-by-its-commitments-to-AP%E2%80%99/article13992819.ece

Union Finance Minister Arun Jaitley on Sunday said the NDA government would stand by all the commitments it made to rebuild Andhra Pradesh and make it a revenue surplus State.He was speaking after inaugurating the 22{+n}{+d}edition of CII Partnership Summit and the first Sunrise AP Investment Meet here at APIIC Harbour Park. The first summit held in AP post-bifurcation will see signing of over 100 MoUs with a total investment of over Rs.2 lakh crore. Over 1400 delegates with 350 from 41 countries are attending the three-day summit. Without referring to the demand for grant of Special Category Status to AP, Mr. Jaitley said the Centre would also fulfil the promises made by the erstwhile UPA-II government and declared that “it’s our responsibility to rebuild AP and make it a prosperous State.”Lauding the foresight and leadership qualities of Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu, Mr. Jaitley said achieving a growth rate of 11 per cent for a new State was a ‘creditable achievement’ and exuded confidence that with aim to achieve 14 to 15 per cent growth rate, AP would soon become an ideal destination for investors. He said the Central Government would certainly support AP for its determination to build a world-class capital at Amaravati. On the difficulties ahead on the economic front, he said the world economy which had recorded a growth rate of 3.6 to 3.7 per cent, would further come down to 2.9 according to World Bank projections. India has emerged as bright spot of global economy with a growth rate of around 7.5 per cent. “Integration of global economy and developments in China and other countries do impact our economy,” he said. Mr. Jaitley said owing to the pragmatic stewardship of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, there is competition among all the States to convert cooperative federalism into competitive federalism. “As a result, all the States are competing with each other,” he said and described how MUDRA scheme to give loans without collateral security to MSMEs has become a big hit.