http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Coimbatore/%E2%80%98Good-response-to-MSME-revival-plan%E2%80%99/article13980343.ece

Union Minister of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) Kalraj Mishra told reporters here on Sunday that the revival and rehabilitation package for MSMEs launched four months ago has received good response.Though he did not have the exact number of sick MSMEs, he could safely say that several industries had approached the Committee for Distressed MSMEs, which banks had set up at zonal or district levels.Based on the industries’ submission, the committee would prepare a corrective action plan.Mr. Mishra said that of the Rs. 1.13 lakh-crore non-performing assets (NPAs), between Rs. 40,000 crore and Rs. 50,000 crore were from the MSME sector. His Ministry was working to reduce the number of sick units and also the NPAs.In addressing the issue, one of the problems that MSME unit owners had raised was interest rate, which they said was high.His Ministry was holding talks with the Reserve Bank of India to address the issue. To promote business, the Ministry had introduced the Udyog Aadhar Memorandum to simplify the process of filling up entrepreneurs’ memorandum. Within two months of the introduction of the scheme, 1.5 lakh entrepreneurs had registered in various States. And, around 800 entrepreneurs had registered in a day on Friday in Tirupur, he said.Exit policyLikewise, the Ministry was also drafting an exit policy for entrepreneurs who could not succeed.Once ready, he would place it before the Cabinet for approval.In response to a question on assistance to flood-affected MSMEs in Chennai, Mr. Mishra said that most of the demands from industrialists were for financial assistance. He had taken it up with the Finance Minister and help was under way.Later, addressing representatives of the Coimbatore District Small Industries Association and a few other organisations, Mr. Mishra urged the industries to tap funds available under various schemes. Funds under various heads remain untapped, he said.