http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/%E2%80%98Time-for-Telugus-to-be-in-right-place-at-right-time%E2%80%99/article14021054.ece

Noted Telugu short story writer and activist Sa. Vem. Ramesh has said that the suppression of Telugu language in Tamil Nadu is making more and more native speakers, who have been living in that State for generations, to take renewed interest in their mother tongue. “People, especially those in the age group of 25 to 30 years, are now focusing more on the language by attending sessions on it on a regular basis,” he said.Mr. Ramesh (45) has been on a mission to popularise Telugu in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka for the last more than two decades. He was here as part of the Kriya State level Children’s Festival.Speaking to The Hindu on the sidelines of the festival, Mr. Ramesh said Telugus living in the border areas of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka were discriminated against.“Half the population of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka have their roots in Andhra. Despite making Tamil Nadu their home, they are not considered part of Tamil society, the reason why Telugus are forced to fight for their rights,” he said.Mr. Ramesh has worked for over a decade at Hosur in Karnataka to popularise Telugu. He recently shifted base to Udumalaipettai near Coimbatore, where he organises sessions on the language. “At Hosur, Telugus write short stories and publish them from the platform Krishnagiri Rachayitala Sangham [Krishnarasam]. Their struggle to continue the legacy of their mother tongue for future generations is visible in their works,” he observes.Incidentally, Mr. Ramesh’s personal experience is no different from any other migrant Telugu. “My grandfather fought for the establishment of a Telugu school in Tamil Nadu. People of my father’s generation gave up their Telugu identity and merged with Tamil society. But, their efforts were all in vain. We are trying to popularise Telugu language despite hurdles,” he says. Mr. Ramesh is known for his collection of short stories titled Pralaya Kaveri Kathalu , which was brought out some 15 years ago. Most of his writings have the border villages as their theme. “Theme is not a big issue for me, as I listen to experiences of people. But, I am keen on the structure of the story,” he says.The man, who does not use computer and has no mail ID, admits that the advent of the social media has provided the right platform for Telugu people living in neighbouring States to promote their language and literature.Despite making Tamil Nadu their home, Telugus are not considered part of Tamil society, feels writer Sa. Vem. Ramesh