http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Vijayawada/%E2%80%98Construction-city%E2%80%99-on-10000-acres-will-be-developed-says-Naidu/article13990192.ece

Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu unveiled a plan to develop a ‘construction city’ in 10,000 acres from where machinery, technologies, materials and trained manpower could be sourced.It will be on the lines of the National Academy of Construction (NAC) situated in Hyderabad. The NAC has materials on display and contractors could hire machinery from the ‘equipment bank’ there. Besides, trained workers are available.“The idea is to create a similar facility in A.P. Some Chinese entrepreneurs evinced interest in developing the facility. I am looking forward to the cooperation of Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (CREDAI) for promoting it and the construction / real estate sector,” he said.Inaugurating the 3rd Property Show of CREDAI here on Friday, Mr. Chandrababu Naidu said the Hyderabad NAC and infrastructure available with it were the best in these parts of the world and such a facility was essential in A.P to boost the prospects of real estate sector.“My endeavour is to adopt the latest technologies and best practices in the construction sector. Development of the capital city – Amaravati – was an excellent opportunity for builders, architects and other stakeholders to grow big.They should have credibility for that and not think of making temporary gains.Mr. Naidu said construction sector makes a significant contribution to Gross State Domestic Product and that due emphasis was laid on urbanisation by the Central and the State governments. As the urban areas grow the demand for new buildings rises and with it goes up the need for specialists in areas like furnishing and fittings.These opportunities should be tapped. These are the days of prefabricated structures which can be erected in a few months or even days but quality cannot be compromised, he observed.The Chief Minister said government’s concentration was on developing cities and towns into liveable/smart places. Focus was on transforming Visakhapatnam (City of Beaches and Hills), Vijayawada (City of Canals) and Tirupati (City of Seven Hills and Lakes) into world-class cities.Mr. Naidu said the Visakhapatnam-Chennai and Chennai-Bangalore Industrial Corridors were a boon for A.P which was in need of investments for upgrading the all – important infrastructure.Visakhapatnam and Yerpedu (Chittoor) were poised for speedy developments as ‘nodes’ in the VCIC and Krishnapatnam in the CBIC. “My aim is to develop each district headquarters into a smart town and a growth centre”, he added.Irrigation Minister Devineni Umamaheswara Rao, District Collector Babu A., CREDAI President (A.P) A. Siva Reddy, Vijayawada Chapter President Ch. Sudhakar and Secretary R.V. Swamy were among those present.