http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/%E2%80%98Unfair-to-use-nationalism-to-promote-hatred%E2%80%99/article14015925.ece

The murders and politics over beef, the suicide of a college student in Hyderabad, the lack of viable alternatives to Narendra Modi at the national level, and the role of the media in a democratic setup like India were the main points of discussion at the session ‘This Unquiet Land’ that saw senior journalist Barkha Dutt in conversation with Shobhaa De.Talking about the manner in which trolls on social media descend on women in the media with a different opinion, Barkha says, “On Wikipedia, it shows that I have married thrice, to Kashmiri Muslim men. It is an attempt to create a fictional reason for my ideological moorings. I do not think this sort of personal slander is hurled at male journalists. I feel it is unfair that the tag of nationalism is being used as a camouflage for promoting hatred.”Dwelling on the lynching over beef in Dadri and the suicide of a young Dalit scholar in Hyderabad, Barkha states, “I think they are inflection points in the contemporary history of India, much like the Nirbhaya case four years ago. For a party that was really good at controlling the narrative, it appears that the BJP is now failing to keep up with it. They let loony elements, within and outside the government, to say outrageous things and did nothing to censor them. Remarks such as crackers will be burst in Pakistan if the BJP loses in Bihar put off even the most committed supporters of the party.”She adds, “In the issue of beef, I feel that the opposition is also responsible. No liberal politician in the country stood up and said that we may eat whatever we want. We cannot kill people for eating beef.”On whether these issues will result in a defeat for the BJP in the 2019 General Elections, Barkha was circumspect. “I do not think there is a viable alternative to challenge Modi yet. Rahul Gandhi is probably not that alternative. Arvind Kejriwal is what Rahul Gandhi wanted to become but did not have the guts to be.”Barkha talked about the intolerance debate and said that she felt letdown after Shah Rukh Khan went back on his statement of intolerance that he had talked about in an interview with her. “I was touched when he said what he did and disappointed when he blamed the media for the furore that followed and the dismal performance of his latest movie, Dilwale. I feel that personalities like Shah Rukh and many others are at a point in their careers, where they have nothing to lose. They should be able to take that risk.”The session also dwelt on the media coverage of the Kargil War and the Mumbai attacks. “When I returned from Kargil, rumours started about how the locations of the soldiers were compromised because I was using satellite phones. The army chief of the time denied these allegations, and put it in his memoirs as well. Those allegations still continue to float around.” She adds, “In Mumbai, both the media and the government were at fault. We had no clue that there were handlers directing the action from across the border.”The author is at JLF on the invitation of Teamwork Arts