http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/%E2%80%98Bawana-is-not-my-Delhi%E2%80%99/article14026589.ece

y son Amit works in Delhi and comes every weekend to meet us,” says 78-year-old Biswanath Haldar, who himself lives in northwest Delhi’s Bawana area.But Mr. Haldar doesn’t consider Bawana to be a part of the Capital. For him, the idea of Delhi is the wide roads, big hospitals, schools and kothis of the south-central district.A native of West Bengal’s Malda district, which recently witnessed communal clashes, he came to Delhi in 1978 with his wife and son, who was then diagnosed with a heart problem.When he landed, he knew of only one place — All India Institutes of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).The medical treatment went on for a month and in the meantime, he got a temporary job as a sweeper in Safdarjung Hospital’s burns ward.Delhi for him was an opportunity and the Bengali camp in Kidwai Nagar was a mini-Malda, where people from similar culture who spoke the same language offered him the comfort of being at home.He stayed on and built his own shanty. His wife started working in the kothis of Green Park and their son went to school.Life was challenging but it was moving forward.And when the Sheila Dikshit government announced the EWS housing scheme Rajiv Ratan Awas Yojana, his dream of owning a house saw the light of day.In 2010, the people of Bengali Camp and Arjun Dass Camp of Kidwai Nagar and another slum cluster in Sarojini Nagar got the allotment letters and they were brought to Bawana.But for the people of these ‘posh’ slums of NDMC areas, Bawana was a rude shock.Earlier, where facilities like hospitals, schools, transportation were available, almost, at their doorstep, the rural heartland on the northwestern periphery was a “jungle with few trees and vacant buildings” as Prem Singh describes.“We waited for almost a year for things to get better but development didn’t touch this part of the city,” said Mr Singh, a sanitation worker in R.K. Puram area, living in Bawana.He starts his day at 4 a.m. and takes a bus to reach Kashmere Gate ISBT.From there, he takes another bus to reach R.K. Puram by 7 a.m., travelling almost 50 km.“But coming back is very tiring during peak traffic hours. In summers, on very hectic days, I sleep in the parks of R.K. Puram.” He is waiting to earn enough to rent a shanty in south Delhi.When Mr. Haldar moved to Bawana his son shifted too but Amit couldn’t handle the difficulties that the ‘rehabilitation’ brought his way.A painter by profession, Amit tried working in a stove factory for some months but made only Rs 4,500 per month.His wife, too, took up a job in the same factory but the exhaustive work took a toll on her health. Even with the combined income they weren’t able to earn enough to pay household bills and school fees.He shifted to R.K. Puram and started living with his in-laws. “I send money to Baba and meet him on weekends, says Amit.With hardly any jobs available in Bawana, people had to rely on their previous jobs. And commuting became the biggest problems.Besides travel time and expenses, safety and lack of facilities forced many to shift back to the central parts of Delhi, from where they had come.Many men left their families in Bawana and shifted to NDMC slums, living in shared rented jhuggies.Now, women, children and older men mostly populate the housing complex.The local pradhan, Kailash Singh, says that of the 266 families, around 100 families have shifted back. “Their stuff is still inside but the flats remain locked on weekdays.”These people come on weekends just to check no one has ransacked their flat and when government officials come to inspect, it looks inhabited.Some have rented out their flats and are waiting for 2020 so that they can sell the house and move out. Advertisements of property dealers are painted on the boundary walls, ground floor flats are rented to gas agencies, private clinics and grocery shops in violation of the rehabilitation policy.But experts say that all this isn’t shocking as it was bound to happen.“It will be wrong to say that these people were rehabilitated,” says Dunu Roy of Hazard Center, a non-profit providing expertise on community organizations, “the government wanted its prime land back. These people were pushed to the periphery.”Already on the lower rungs of the social structure, the government pretty much chucked them out of the city.“Slums might be an eyesore for government officials but if we don’t exist, then who will clean the city?” said Mr. Haldar, who still misses ‘his Delhi’.Many men have left their families in Bawana and shifted to NDMC slums. Now, women, children and older men mostly populate the housing complex