http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Mangalore/%E2%80%98Soldiers-are-the-foundation-of-the-nation%E2%80%99/article14022607.ece

There was pall of gloom among the audience when the master of ceremonies read out how two soldiers from Dakshina Kannada gave their life and two others got injured on duty.The audience gave a standing ovation to the two injured and the family of the two who died, at a felicitation programme for them here on Tuesday. The former Lokayutka N. Santosh Hegde felicitated them.M Friends, a WhatsApp group, and School of Social Work had organised the programme on the occasion of Republic Day at Roshni Nilaya.The injured soldiers were Chandappa D.S. from Mogru village in Belthangady taluk and Sesappa Gowda from Ramakunja village in Puttur taluk. Those who died were Chandrashekar from near B.C. Road in Bantwal taluk and Parameshwara K. of Dolpady village in Puttur Taluk.Mr. Chandappa, who retired from the Army in 2003, had suffered a bullet injury on duty. Mr. Gowda, who retired in 1999, suffered an injury in a bomb explosion in Poonch sector.Mr. Chandrashekar lost his life in Indian Peace Keeping Force (KPKF) operations in Sri Lanka in 1987. His wife Indira Chandrashekar received the honour. Mr. Parameshwar died during a shell attack by Pakistani forces in Kargil sector in 2002. His wife Pushpavathi was felicitated. After receiving the felicitation, Mr. Chandappa said that soldiers are the foundation of the nation. Mr. Hegde said that the Union government should make Armed forces training to civilians mandatory like in the United States. It would definitely make a change in the society, he said. Mr. Hegde said that it would not be possible to eradicate corruption completely from the society. But it could be curtailed. He stressed on the need to impart moral education in schools and colleges.The programme had been organised to honour Indian soldiers wounded in the line of battle and the families of soldiers who sacrificed their life while serving the nation.