http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/%E2%80%98Lakes-gobbled-up-by-developers-government-agencies%E2%80%99/article13990274.ece

Prominent developers in the city are major encroachers of tanks and tank-beds in Bangalore Urban and Rural districts. This was revealed by a physical survey by a 11-member committee of the Legislative Assembly, headed by K.B. Koliwad.The encroachment is reportedly to the extent of 10,472 acres, valued in the market at a mind-boggling Rs 1.50 lakh crore.The committee will be sending out show-cause notices to all developers and persons in the two districts seeking why they should not be evicted from the property. They have to reply to show cause notices before January 30.The committee, which was formed 14 months ago, said that the names of all land grabbers, the extent of land grabbed, buildings details will be published in gazette notification.As many as 11,595 persons and government agencies have allegedly grabbed tank areas and developed residential and commercial buildings, schools, community halls etc. in the two districts. Mr. Koliwad, who presented a 17-page progress report, noted the involvement of several government departments/agencies, such as the Bangalore Development Authority, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, the Transport, Education, Forest, Urban Development Departments, in the encroachment of tanks.The committee hired 200 surveyors and checked all tanks in two districts. Tahsildars will issue notices to land grabbers while the Assistant Commissioners would collect explanations provided by developers and forward it, Mr. Koliwad said.The panel will take another four months to submit its report to the government.Prominent developers named in reportAdarsha Developers, Prestige Group, D.S. Max, Shobha Developers, Brigade Group, Oberoi Group, R.N.S. Motors, Bagmane Tech Park, Nisargadhama Estates, Nandini Apartments, Grasshopper Resorts, Vandana Sagar Apartments, Advaita Group, Wall Mark Group, Green Wood Group, Pushpam Developers, R.K. Developers, B.R. Valley park, Sri Ram Apartments, N.D. Developers, Aishwaraya Developers, Oasis Apartments, Phantsay Apartment, Lakeview Apartments, Mahalakshmi apartmentsCM, Speakers given sitesBENGALURU: The Bangalore Development Authority has allegedly encroached 481 acres of tanks and developed layout and sites, as per the Koliwad committee. Among those who have been given sites in these areas are Speaker Kagodu Thimmappa and Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, both in Dollars’ Colony in J.P. Nagar. Now both have sold the sites to other parties.Criminal cases against officialsOfficials, who generated fake documents and sanctioned plans for developers to build projects, will have to face criminal cases. The K.B. Koliwad-headed panel, looking into lake encroachments, said: “If we find officials hand in glove with developers, we will send them (officials) to jail, and impose penalties.”With enormous grabbing of lands, the panel would evolve an alternative plan on regularistion/eviction of properties after studying explanations from land grabbers. However, the panel has no powers to direct demolition of buildings, he said.