http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/%E2%80%98Sedentary-lifestyle-reason-for-rise-in-C-sections%E2%80%99/article14017557.ece

Sedentary lifestyle, late and high-risk pregnancies are some of the factors for the increase in the number of C-section (Caesarean) deliveries, claim experts.According to the latest National Family Health Survey 4, released recently, the percentage of C-section has increased from 15.5 to 23.6 over the past decade. This is well over the World Health Organization benchmark for C-sections of around 10 to 15 per cent of the total population.Also, the percentage of C-sections in private sector has risen from 31.9 in 2005–06 to 40.3 in 2015–16, while in government hospitals it has seen a marginal decline from 17.2 to 16.9. About 61.4 per cent of institutional births in the State are in a public set-up.State Deputy Director (Maternal Health) Ramachandra B. also pointed out that C-section was associated with the socio-economic factor. “People from low socio-economic backgrounds do not have a sedentary lifestyle and have a pelvis that is adequate for deliveries. But those from better socio-economic backgrounds tend to have a sedentary lifestyle and opt for C-section deliveries,” he said. Sedentary lifestyle could lead to a mismatch between the capacity of the mother’s pelvis and the size of the foetal head, Dr. Ramachandra said.He also added that many of the women from better socio-economic backgrounds do not want to undergo labour pain, and insist on C-sections. In cases of high-risk pregnancy, which include delayed pregnancies or if the mother has high blood pressure, gestational diabetes or heart problems, doctors suggest C-sections, he added.Gayathri Kamath, consultant obstetrics and gynaecologist at a city hospital, said C-section deliveries were more in private hospitals owing to the patient profiles. However, she pointed out that there was a need for doctors to counsel patients and put them in touch with support groups to dispel fear and paranoia around normal deliveries. Dr. Kamath also pointed out that there was a need to ensure that doctors do not recommend C-section deliveries for first-time mothers.Chandrayee Banerjee (30), an IT professional who had a normal delivery in October, said she was initially wary about it. After counselling by the doctor, months of healthy eating combined with walking and Lamaze classes, she was still given injection to reduce the labour pain.(REPORTING BY TANU KULKARNI)