http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/%E2%80%98TRS-not-banking-on-weaknesses-of-other-parties%E2%80%99/article14023396.ece

Nizamabad MP of the TRS party, K. Kavitha, said that the party was not banking on the weaknesses of other parties but its own strength to win the GHMC polls.Addressing a ‘meet the press’ programme organised by the Telangana Union of Working Journalists on Wednesday, Ms. Kavitha said the strength of the TRS lay in its achievements in the past 20 months which were appreciated by the people. Some of the achievements included 24-hour power supply, overcoming drinking water shortage and construction of 400 two-bedroom houses in a record eight months in Hyderabad.Answering a question whether the slogan of the TRS as a home grown party will work in the GHMC elections, she said she saw no difference between the mood of people of the city and elsewhere in Telangana in this regard. People gave mandate to the party in the 2014 general elections because they were convinced that a home grown party alone could deliver, she said.Ms. Kavitha accused the rival parties of resorting to negative campaign by raising the issue of beef eating and friendly ties between MIM and the TRS. The TRS will not interfere with eating habits and religious faiths of the people. She appealed to the TDP and the BJP not to divide people on religious lines.On the reservation status for the post of Mayor, she said it will be decided by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao after the polls. She also said the common women were not concerned about lack of representation to them in Cabinet, but the demand came from politically conscious among them. In any case, it was no use to merely have a woman in the Cabinet who made no efforts for the welfare of the section. There were six women in the Cabinet of Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy but they did nothing, she said.She assured that the 12 per cent reservation for minorities promised by the TRS would be implemented if the Centre conceded the demand of the State government to enhance the cap on quota to 69 per cent. She also said the usage of Telugu or Urdu did not expand because English grew rapidly in official communication, and the font of the two languages for computers was also scarce.s