http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/%E2%80%98Take-decision-on-supplying-water-to-city%E2%80%99/article14009337.ece

Urban Development Minister Vinay Kumar Sorake on Tuesday urged the Mysore City Corporation (MCC) to convene a council meeting immediately to take a decision on the agency which would supply water to the city.There has been a continued tussle between MCC and the State government over assigning the task of supplying water to the city to the Karnataka Urban Water Supply and Drainage Board (KUWSDB). While MCC wants to supply water to the city on its own, the State government wants MCC to hand over the task to KUWSDB.Mr. Sorake, at a meeting on Tuesday, has urged Mayor Byrappa and chairpersons of different standing committees to hold a council meeting and take an appropriate decision in allotting the work. He also told the Mayor to consider assigning the work to KUWSDB.It may be recalled here that Councillors, cutting across party lines, had opposed handing over the task to KUWSDB in the last few council meetings. MCC had also passed resolutions in this regard.However, the State government had written to MCC to withdraw the resolutions and assign the task to the Board.Many Councillors had also opposed the State government’s intervention in MCC’s functioning.Both the State government and MCC had not raised the subject till now.He claimed that Chief Minister Siddaramaiah had released a special grant of Rs. 200 crore to the city.Similarly, an amount of Rs.100 crore had been released to protect heritage sites in the city, he said.‘Mobilise resources’Many urban local bodies (ULBs), including corporations, have become charity institutions and they have failed to mobilise resources effectively, said Mr. Kumar Sorake. He said that he had evaluated the performance of urban local bodies during his state tours in the past and noticed that the ULBs failed to collect property tax, water cess and revenue from hoardings and other sources.Mr. Sorake said that he had warned many ULBs, including the Mysuru City Corporation, for depending on government grants in stead of mobilising its own resources. “If they run short of funds even after mobilising all its sources, then the State government would release grants for development works,” he said.The Urban Development Department has recruited over 172 town planners and other officials, he said and added that 100 engineers would be appointed soon through KPSC.Besides, he said, Deputy Commissioners have been instructed to appoint the required number of pourakarmikas in their respective districts. “The department would soon introduce a system wherein wages would be remitted to the accounts of each pourakarmika online. Besides, this over 179 persons would be appointed on compassionate grounds,” the Minister said.