http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/%E2%80%98Build-two-cesspools-for-every-new-multi-storeyed-residential-building%E2%80%99/article13989322.ece

The Udupi City Municipal Council (CMC) on Friday passed a resolution asking the Udupi Urban Development Authority (UUDA) to include a condition that two separate cesspools be accomodated in new multi-storied residential buildings to be built in the city.Raising the issue, Ganesh Nergi, councillor, said that a cesspool of a building was overflowing near Santhekatte and people wanted the CMC to help them. Other councillors supported him.Raghavendra, Environment Engineer, said that the soil condition in some areas near Malpe was sandy, while there was laterite soil in Manipal. A single cesspool could not bear the pressure of sewage from 25 flats. Hence it was essential that these buildings had two separate cesspools – one for bathroom and kitchen waste and another for lavatory waste. This could solve the problem. A single cesspool would overflow during rainy season. Besides, giving underground drainage connection to the entire city would take some time, he said.Some councillors suggested stoppage of licences for apartment buildings till the underground drainage system was extended to the entire city. But officials pointed out that this could not be done as per the present regulations.It was then decided to urge the UUDA to include a condition of construction of two cesspools for all new apartment buildings, along with other construction conditions.Prashanth Bhat, councillor, said that a lot of time was being taken to replace exhausted street lamps. In some places, action had not been taken for months, he said.Shashiraj Kundar, councillor, said that the CMC had given contracts for paid parking near Pejawar Mutt and other places. But those in charge of supervising the paid parking were recklessly charging the people.“If someone speaks in Kannada, the charge is Rs. 10 per vehicle, if he or she speaks in Tulu, the charge is Rs. 20 per vehicle. They are looking at the faces of people and deciding the charge. People are cursing the CMC for the wrong doings of these persons,” he said. Janardhan Bhandarkar, councillor, said that since there was so much opposition to the paid parking system, the CMC should immediately cancel the contracts. P. Yuvaraj, CMC president, said that steps would be taken to cancel the paid parking system.Some councillors complained about stray dog problem and said that there were complaints by people behind MGM College about stray dogs. Some people suspected that dogs from other places being brought and left behind the college, they said.