http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/%E2%80%98JDS-will-not-tolerate-protocol-violation-during-CM%E2%80%99s-programme%E2%80%99/article13985449.ece

H.D. Revanna, MLA and leader of the Janata Dal (Secular), has said that his party will not tolerate any kind of protocol violation during the Chief Minister’s visit scheduled for Thursday and in the event of any such violation, the district administration should take the blame.Addressing a press conference here on Wednesday, Mr. Revanna said that during the inaugural function of Kachenahalli Lift Irrigation Project at Udayapura last year, the Congress workers were allowed on the dais and the audience allowed to raise slogans against Janata Dal (S) leaders. “We cannot tolerate if such incidents recur here on Thursday. Except the elected representatives, none should be allowed to speak during the event,” he said.Referring to the Chief Minister’s programme, Mr. Revanna said that the former would be inaugurating the work executed during H.D. Kumaraswamy’s term as Chief Minister. “Hassan Veterinary College has been functioning for four to five years now. Mr. Kumaraswamy had sanctioned Rs. 120 crore for the college. What’s the point in inaugurating it now? Similarly, the Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences building has been functioning for several months. The office of the Executive Engineer of the Public Works Department was built some years ago. All the projects to be inaugurated by the Chief Minister on Thursday had been executed during the Janata Dal (S) rule,” he said.Meanwhile, Mr. Revanna said that all the five Janata Dal (S) MLAs would be attending the Chief Minister’s programme. “We are not opposed to development works. But, the government should have planned some new projects for Hassan. During the Janata Dal (S) rule, the Government Engineering College was built. However, so far, the college had not been provided with basic amenities. The government should fulfil the requirements,” he said.Hassan MLA H.S. Prakash was present.