http://www.thehindu.com/features/downtown/%E2%80%98Remove-barricades-to-ensure-free-flow-of-vehicular-traffic%E2%80%99/article14001622.ece

The move by the Southern Railway to place barricades near the entrance of the Tambaram Railway Station for preventing the entry of private vehicles/tourist cabs into the station has been leadinf to traffic snarls during rush hour.Only motorcyclists and autorickshaw drivers are allowed to go beyond the barricades.“During rush hour, pedestrians/commuters find it difficult to enter the station premises due to traffic congestion. Passengers using cabs are dropped near the barricades. When the drivers take a turn near the barricades, it causes traffic congestion,” K. Bala, a commuter, said.To avoid waiting, two-wheelers pass through the narrow pedestrian pathway. They also try to squeeze in through the barricades. Car drivers and motorcyclists can turn right and exit through the Railway Grounds, and take a u-turn near the intersection of Bharatha Matha Street and Velachery Main Road to reach West Tambaram. “We end up missing our trains,” commuters complained.“The long-distance train passengers, carrying heavy baggage, are forced to walk till the escalator or staircases. The barricades should be removed to facilitate free flow of vehicular traffic,” he pointed out.To avoid taking a turn at the intersection of MES Road and Velachery Main Road, a few road users come in the wrong direction, blocking the way for the vehicles proceeding towards Camp Road.Even after the signal turns green, vehicle users are not able to move due to the chaos created by errant vehicle-users. However, a few commuters welcomed the move of the Railway. They said: “During rush hour, the relatives of the commuters wait upto the booking office. Cabs used to be parked on both sides and motorists, especially autorickshaw drivers, engaged in reckless driving. A rule should be made that they should enter the station from MES Road side and exit through the Railway Grounds,” they added.