http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/%E2%80%98It-is-not-enough-to-be-crazy-and-creative%E2%80%99/article13999522.ece

“Can we meet outdoors? Closed spaces make me uncomfortable,” says Arun Karthick, over the telephone. We set up an interview at an architect friend’s semi-furnished house amidst a plantain grove and a water channel. For a 23-year-old filmmaker, whose debut work, Sivapuranam (The strange case of Shiva), has been selected for the prestigious International Film Festival Rotterdam, he is surprisingly calm. But, when he starts talking, his voice gives him away. “I have always been a big fan of the festival. It encourages filmmakers who push the barriers of cinema. Sivapuranam is selected for the competition section called Bright Future for filmmakers from across the world. People will take me more seriously, now. Also, CineMart, one of the biggest film markets in Europe for contemporary cinema, happens here. It might help me find collaborators for my next work.”Sivapuranam is about a man who leads a solitary existence in a house in Kerala, and is obsessed with a beautiful woman. Shot in an avant-garde style, the film does not have a single dialogue, but it hooks you from scene one. “The film was inspired by Charles Baudelaire’s poem, The Dancing Serpent, which describes the physical beauty of a woman. I wanted the film to be a contemplative study on the character of this man. And explore his larger connection to the space around him.” Arun has collaborated with some of the finest technicians of the Indian film industry, such as Saumyananda Sahi, the cinematographer of Rangbhoomi, and Arghya Basu, a Bengali filmmaker, who has done the editing. “After seeing the footage, Arghya told me that one could make a hundred films out of it. So, I needed first to arrive at a structure for the narrative myself. Since it did not have the conventional climax of a mainstream film, the form and sound had a huge role to play in setting the mood.” The film is produced by Suresh Kumar of SK Cinemas.Arun is a self-taught filmmaker. He owes his early initiation into cinema to the city-based Konangal Film Society, which introduced him to international filmmakers. “Our village in Thadagam had hardly any film culture. I never watched popular films. However, after Class 11, I started attending the film screenings and I was completely hooked to the magic of cinema. I watched each film with child-like amazement.”He has also worked on a documentary about Adoor Gopalakrishnan. Spending time with the award-winning auteur was a learning experience, recalls Arun. “He used to be involved in every part of the filmmaking process. He would even sweep the sets. He was so disciplined even at this age. He would wake up in the early hours and devote time to read something. It is not enough to be crazy and creative. One has to be disciplined to channelise it in the right direction.”Arun says writing a script and shooting it is just one part of making a film. Finding funds for the post-production work of the film was a huge task. Fortunately, the film won the gap-financing award at the NFDC Film Bazaar in 2014. The award money helped him complete the film.Arun feels more producers should come forward to invest in independent cinema, so that there is a sustainable movie-production ambience. “Even countries like Indonesia and Thailand have a much healthier scenario. We still follow the conventional circuits here. We need more theatres to show art house films and look for new avenues for screening films. See how Netflix is providing space for independent filmmakers in the U.S.A. If my film does not find distributors or screening spaces, I am ready to hold a public screening myself. I am even ready to sit behind the counter and sell tickets, if that is what it takes to show my film to the world.”As we talk, dusk falls and a mild breeze rustles the plantain trees. Arun sips water from a bottle and leans back on his chair, admiring the play of sunlight. It is not surprising that he wanted an ambience like this for a chat. For a boy who grew up chasing crabs and climbing mountains, Arun has led a lifestyle quite different from the mainstream one. His life experiences are unique, different from the mass culture, and so are his films. “A good film has to subvert the form. Cinema opens your eyes to profound truths. I find that missing in the popular films. They do not engage with human nature in a deep way. In fact, you can sense that shallowness in the way our generation talks. Do we discuss about something seriously anymore? We are terrified of difference of opinions.”