http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/%E2%80%98Packed-beyond-all-health-and-safety-norms%E2%80%99/article13981751.ece

Dr. Indu Prakash Singh, Executive Committee member of the Shahri Adhikar Manch: Begharon Ke Saath (Urban Rights Forum: With the Homeless), talks to Bindu Shajan Perappadan about the obstacles facing the homeless in tehe Capital.Where does Delhi stand in terms of the facilities offered to the homeless?Delhi today has 245 shelters, yet it’s deficient by over 80 per cent of the shelter space (going by the government guidelines). All the shelters are full, beyond the safety and personal health norms. More shelters are required. Also it will be a good idea to cover the undersides of flyover, where large number of the City Makers (homeless residents) sleeps, like Yamuna Bazaar, ISBT, etc. Last year too we wrote to the L-G for this, but he took no action.Is the AAP govt. doing enough?The Delhi government has been listening to us. But surely they can’t address the cumulative deficit of shelter space that has intensified, due to the inaction, indifference on the part of the previous governments. As per the Supreme Court orders (following the Master Plan for Delhi [MPD], 2021 norms), there should be 1 shelter per 100,000 population. MPD further states that each of these shelters should have an area of 1,000 sq. ft. National Urban Livelihood Mission's (NULM) Scheme for Shelters for the Urban Homeless [SUH], specifies that each person in the shelter should have 50 sq. ft., besides toilet, drinking water, locker and other facilities. The state government needs not only to see how many shelters they have but also specify the space dimension of each shelter. For mere number of shelters mean nothing in terms of coverage.Who/What is the biggest hurdle in ensuring that the homeless are not left to fend for themselves in the city?Across India, 601 shelters have been sanctioned, sadly not even half the number have been established. We have found that the bureaucrats are the biggest hurdle in this entire provisioning of shelters for the City Makers (homeless). Had it not been for the judiciary, no one would have been bothered for these homeless residents.