http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/%E2%80%98Hyderabad-is-for-all-Congress-for-Hyderabad%E2%80%99/article13996590.ece

The Congress is confident of getting back its traditional vote bank in the ensuing elections to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC). The party also feels that the Seemandhra people, who made Hyderabad as their home, will vote for Congress this time as the issues related to the bifurcation of erstwhile Andhra Pradesh have subsided since the last General Elections in 2014.“These elections are as important to us as any other elections. We also think that it is a good opportunity for us to recover our vote base. Slowly, people of Hyderabad are realising that Congress is the best suited for them among all the competent parties,” Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy told The Hindu in an exclusive interview on Monday.Asserting that post elections, the Mayor of Hyderabad would be a Congress corporator, Mr. Reddy ruled out any truck with the Majlis Ittehadul Muslimeen (MIM) either before or after the polls because the “MIM, which grew on the basis of the Congress support, has tried to damage the Congress Party at the national level”.He said that the Congress would be coming up with a special manifesto for the GHMC elections and the party’s main plank, besides provision of basic amenities, would be “Hyderabad is for all”.The TPCC chief feels that his party's main rival in the GHMC poll would be the MIM in the old city and the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) in other areas. “For various reasons, the TDP-BJP combine has lost significant ground since 2014”, he added. Edited excerpts:What are the prospects of Congress party in GHMC elections?Fundamentally we feel that the people of Hyderabad are aware that the Twin Cities is what it is today because of the then Congress Government. My assessment is that we will repeat earlier performance of winning 50 seats in the GHMC polls.What is your agenda for the polls?We are coming up with a special manifesto for GHMC elections. Congress party is better prepared and qualified to address the issues affecting the public whether traffic congestion, water supply, drainage and sewerage system or any other civic amenities..What are the issues the Congress will raise during campaign?We are going to basically focus on door-to-door campaign and meet original Hyderabadis and Telanganites and convince them that Hyderabad is a global city because of Congress. We will convince the Muslims that the TRS party cheated them on 12 per cent reservations and that MIM is not protecting their interests whether it be development of old city or actual benefit of Muslim community. We will convince Seemandhra voters that their security and welfare would be best taken care of by Congress party.Will Seemandhra voters influence the GHMC election?It’s a fact that the percentage of Seemandhra voters in Hyderabad is significant and they would have a major say in the elections along with the Muslim community, and of course the native Hyderabadis. We are going to focus on what we believe that Hyderabad is for all. People from Seemandhra or any other part of country can live peacefully under Congress regime. This is vis- a- vis TRS party and government has made many anti- Seemandhra statements and actions.Do you feel this kind of fear has come down?I must tell you that in 2014 elections significant population voted against us because we gave a separate State. But that issue is not there any more and the anger and resentment is missing. But uncertainty has been created by the TRS and the Government in the minds of Seemandhra voters. We are against such action of the TRS.How significant is the GHMC election for a national party like yours?These elections are as important as any election. We think it is a good opportunity for us to recover our vote base that was slightly diminished in 2014.What factors will give you confidence that you will recover the vote base?The issues that caused our debacle in 2014 are not so significant and not that relevant now. Also I think slowly people of Hyderabad realised that the Congress party is best suited among all the competing parties to protect the interest of Hyderabadis and to take forward the development of the city.Who all will be spearheading the campaign?Our election campaign will be almost confined to present State leadership. From the AICC, Digvijay Singh and Ghulam Nabi Azad will participate in the campaign.Which are your rival parties in this election?We think in the old city it is MIM and in the new city TRS.What will be the status of TDP-BJP combine in GHMC elections?For various reasons, the TDP-BJP combine has lost significant ground in GHMC area from last election to now. Whether it be that Modi wave on wane, whether it be the fact that the significant communities voted enmasse for TDP last time. If your consider any of this factor, you will find that they all are coming down and Congress party is on the upward