http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/%E2%80%98Heritage-protection-needs-to-be-youth-driven%E2%80%99/article14006848.ece

In recent months, concerned citizens have raised their voices about preserving the city’s heritage, apart from also censuring the State government for not listening to their concerns. So if one is willing to do his or her part to make officials sit up and listen, how to go about it? Biju Mathew perhaps has a solution for them.As someone who has been organising and working with immigrant taxi drivers in the US for almost two decades, Mr. Mathew, who is the Secretary of the National Taxi Workers Alliance in the US, and chair, Executive Committee, Lamakaan, feels that there is a particular movement in Hyderabad wherein the city is willing to look at its past again.Explaining to Yunus Y. Lasania on how things must be organised if citizens want to protect the city’s heritage, Mr. Mathew talks to The Hindu in an interview about the city, Lamakaan, and the role of the city’s youth in the bigger scheme of things.How do you think that citizens can bring up the issue of protecting the city’s heritage? Have you seen any kind of change in attitudes compared to the past?The problem is that to make it all work, you need to have a bunch of people who get organised, think about it, and do some coordinated concerted work. A lot of people have been working on heritage, like INTACH for example. I realised that they are well-meaning people located in small organisations. To create something, you need something youth-led right now.From my interactions, I could see that there is a level of passion there. And heritage does not mean only buildings, even language is heritage, and also the rocks in Lamakaan are the same.What do you think should be done then? You say youth-led, does it mean that the participation of youngsters has been lacking when it comes to such issues?I think that a particular lack of understanding on how to build an organisation was missing. The youth coming into a certain movement today are people who have grown up in the ‘Narayana-Chaitanya’ world. When I was studying in the Nizam’s college, there was pressure on me to become an engineer, but it was not like how it is today. By the 1990s it had transformed.Kids don’t have time today, they don’t know which Irani café is located where. They don’t know about the President Café at RTC Cross roads, which is one of the city’s oldest Irani cafes. The person running the counter had a chance to join IIT. I’m not blaming them. I’m saying that my generation is the one that has pushed them (youngsters) into that situation.You had held a workshop at Lamakaan last week on how to conserve heritage in the city. Did you see any youngster during your interaction who were on the same page as you? What do you think needs to be done to bring in more youth into such movements?At the workshop, I started out with a broad discussion on what it means to build an organisation. I asked every person there to give me three words on their relationship with the city. I also asked them to think of another person they know who is not part of their immediate circle, but in a different circle, and to give three words about that person’s relationship with the city.Lot of interesting things came up. Everybody there used words like ‘my home’, ‘love’, etc. about their relationship with the city. But about other people, words like ‘distant’ and ‘indifferent’ came up; meaning that (they thought) people who have lived in the city for say 20 years are indifferent because they are part of a different culture.So this interesting contradiction merged. So if anything has to change in Hyderabad, public consciousness has to change and awareness has to increase.Since its inception, do you think Lamakaan has served the purpose that it was started for?I developed my understanding of the city and the world because of the atmosphere I grew up in here, like sitting and talking at Irani cafes for hours together. The idea of Lamakaan is to give something back to the city and to create a space where one can say what he or she wants, and not be judged. At Lamakaan you won’t get cappuccinos, because we wanted to promote Hyderabadi things like chai.