http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/%E2%80%98I-cannot-write-in-silence%E2%80%99/article14024674.ece

A love of music and reggae in Jamaica, the story of a country breaking away from its colonial legacy and adapting elements of American popular culture, an attempt on the life of Bob Marley makes up the crux of Marlon James’ A History of SevenKillings that won the Man Booker prize in 2015. At a session at Charbagh at the recently concluded JLF, Marlon in conversation with novelist Patrick French talked about his upbringing, influences and the genesis of the book. Marlon says, “The 70’s was an era of change in Jamaica. The colonial legacy was giving way to American influences. We grew up on TV series such as Sesame Street. We no longer aspired to cultivate a British accent and found a sense of pride in talking in the Jamaican accent.”He adds, “I did not start in a linear manner. The book did not start out being about the attempted murder of Bob Marley. I started to write from page 458 and there was a lot of back and forth. I used multiple narratives, with the assassination attempt on Bob Marley being a sort of a connecting tissue to the book. I focused a lot on the accent and the language each of my characters spoke in and even managed to create a dictionary of sorts. Getting the time frame of the events correct was simple; placing the characters, getting their accents right was the tough task. Many of the crazy things mentioned in the book are true, while many of the sane events are the ones that I had to make up.Asked by French on the liberal use of songs and the role of music in the book, Marlon responds, “I like to write while I listen to music. I cannot write in silence. However, the music I listened to when I was writing was different from the music that makes up much of this book. As far as Marley was concerned, I did not grow up listening to him. It is only after he died that everyone started to listen to him, mostly out of guilt.”Marlon, who divides his time between Minnesota and Jamaica, says that he feels at home in Minnesota. “I prefer to keep the Jamaican accent though.”Talking about his childhood, Marlon quips, “I have heard gunshots only once in my life and would hope that I never have to listen to it again. I grew up in a middle class neighbourhood and had a normal childhood. I did not experience any violence as such.”Tongue-in-cheek, he quips, “Whenever I get asked on how I write about things that I never experienced, I say talent and imagination alone.”“On a serious note, I think it is the threat of violence that is actually more scary than the actual deed. In Jamaica, torture is a part of the law enforcement and is one of the legacies of being a crown colony.”The Booker prize win has ensured that his views are sought out more. “The one change is anything I put on Facebook makes it way to The Guardian. I am not an activist, but feel that writers should have some sort of understanding about the world outside. My joke on the bear in The Revenant winning an Oscar if it were a polar bear also went viral.”Discussing whether the Obama presidency has changed race relations in the United States, Marlon was circumspect, “There have been many incidents recently. I am a huge supporter of the Black Lives Matter campaign. I think the toughest part is to convince people that racism is not a moral issue but systemic. You could be a good guy and still be a racist. More awareness is needed to bring about change.”The author was at JLF on the invitation of Teamwork Arts