http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/%E2%80%98Priority-to-planting-saplings-in-next-two-years%E2%80%99/article14005813.ece

Vishwesha Tirtha Swami of Paryaya Pejawar Mutt said on Monday that he would give priority to planting of saplings during his two-year Paryaya period as there was lot of environmental destruction in the country.He was speaking at the Paryaya Durbar function after ascending the Paryaya Peetha at the 800-year-old Sri Krishna Mutt/Temple for a record fifth time, here.The Pejawar seer said that he had decided to give a sapling to anyone who sought one during the next two years. Both the Union and State governments should give priority to planting of saplings. At least six crore saplings should be planted in the State.He would also construct an old age home for the elderly either in Udupi or at Pajaka, the birthplace of the exponent of Dwaita philosophy.He wanted also encourage the people especially the youth to give up their vices. Towards this end, he would keep a ‘Dushchata Vimukti Hundi’ at the Sri Krishna Mutt/Temple.Both Muslims and Christians had given donations (‘horekanike’) of foodgrains and vegetables for his fifth Paryaya. He was felicitated at a church in Puttur.The District Muslim Paryaya Souharda Samiti had even held a voluntary blood donation camp on January 17. “I want the harmony to prevail between all communities,” he said. He would construct a residential school and college at Pajaka, which would give education from kindergarten to degree level, the Pejawar seer said.In his felicitation address, H.N. Ananth Kumar, Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilizers, said that he would provide the seer with the required number of saplings. He would also try to plant about one crore saplings in Bengaluru.The Pejawar seer should also ascend the Paryaya Peetha for the sixth time in 2032. It would be a cause for double celebration as he would be 100 years old in 2032, he said.C.M. Ibrahim, Deputy Chairman of State Planning Commission, said that he was perhaps the first Muslim to be called for Paryaya Durbar function. He hoped that the seer’s Paryaya would lead to more harmony various communities and be a truly secular country. B.S. Yeddyurappa, former Chief Minister, lauded the Pejawar seer for working to remove untouchability.M. Veerappa Moily, former Chief Minister, H. Anjaneya, Social Welfare Minister, H.K. Patil, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister, R.V. Deshpande, Industries and Tourism Minister, Vinay Kumar Sorake, Urban Development Minister, were present.