http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/%E2%80%98The-journey-has-been-beautiful%E2%80%99/article13995946.ece

Designer Vikram Phadnis’ house in Mumbai is abuzz with revelry. A peek into his instagram pictures reveals the reason behind the buzz- he is celebrating 25 years of designingPhadnis is in no mood to party yet. In fact, for the next few days he will be gripped with fashion fever as he launches his new collection ‘Adhvan’ on January 16 to mark the 25th anniversary . “Adhvan is very special to me,” smiles Phadnis. “All the silhouettes are the amalgamation of 25 years of my design sensibilities. It is beautiful because fashion has changed and evolved over the years.”Phadnis reminisces the initial years when his designer dreams took off in the glitzy world. With no formal training in designing, the fashion sense of this self taught designer derived from the surroundings and the people he met. He began as a choreographer and charted a new path with designing.The decision to change careers was not sudden,” he avers. “There was no one moment when I made the decision. There were a few factors and one thing snowballed into other. The fact that Salman (actor Salman Khan) gave me stability in the industry worked. He was the godfather which every fashion girl or boy wants in their early stages,” he recalls.He shares how Salman Khan was a pillar of strength in his initial days. ‘He very selflessly gave me a standing in the industry and the opportunity.”For more than two decades, Phadnis has been designing for the divas of Bollywood. Be it Priyanka, Kareena Kapoor or Katrina Kaif, he has dressed them all and had successful runs at the fashion weeks. He has also been churning out creations that have left lasting impressions. “Being part of the entertainment industry has seen me do it all - from choreography and fashion designing to retail and celebrity styling. I have covered all aspects of fashion. The journey has been beautiful and lucky too, since I have no formal training in fashion. I am determined to understand the business of fashion and that has made me sustain in these 25 years.”Phadnis compares the fashion scene and how style has evolved as an important factor. “The research was limited and there were few people working in the industry. Now, there are so many designers and stylists. I was there at a time when there was nothing and now when there is everything. India has changed tremendously in all these years. I am lucky to have seen it all.”As a designer he faced challenges in the form of people not willing to experiment. “There are challenges also when people do not want to indulge in clothing. I have been through that. Thankfully, people want value for money today. They are more aware of what they want to wear and do not want to compromise. In that aspect, there has been a drastic change,” he observes and adds, “Sometimes one faces criticism everyday. People love your work and sometimes they don’t.”His multi-designer store Krsaa showcases collections from other designers too. “I have got great support from my colleagues, who are also fashion designers who have helped me put it through,” he states.Phadnis has nurtured dreams of directing a movie for quite long. His movie has been in talks for two years now and Phadnis hopes to start it this year. With excitement in his voice, he reveals, “Once my show to mark my 25 years in fashion is over, I can focus on the movie. The movie is a simple sweet film and has nothing to with fashion.” There were reports of Bipasha playing the female lead and Rana walking out the movie. He quips, “The starcast has not been decided.”This year might also see Phadnis visiting Hyderabad. Currently his store in Banjara Hills is under renovation and might start in another five weeks. Phadnis’ fashion saga continues and the designer is determined to realise his movie dreams in 2016 with his mantra – ‘Be determined and stay focussed’.Style factorBest dressed people: Salman Khan and Priyanka ChopraFashion for 2016 : Simplicity; Simple will be moreAny regrets: noneUnfulfilled dreams: Start the film soon