http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/%E2%80%98Bag%E2%80%99-all-your-needs/article14022767.ece

Head to the newly opened ‘The Top Bags’ store on Kamarajar Salai, for all your bag needs. The 2,000 sq.ft store is dubbed as the largest exclusive bag shop in the city, stocking over 10,000 varieties of bags that come in various styles, shapes and sizes. “The idea is to provide a one-stop shop for every member of the family. There are bags that suit the taste and needs of everyone – from old people, to youngsters and children,” says A.L. Thirumalai, the owner of the store. The Top Bags also has its outlets in Narimedu and TPK Road.The new store is home to both multi-brands and in-house line of clutches, ladies purses, office and handbags to the sophisticated leather totes, vanity cases and jewellery boxes. Laptop and executive bags for men, Baggy cloth bags for shopping, chic shoulder bags for women, bling clutches and shiny wallets for occasion wear are the varieties available. There’s also an exclusive line of school bags, lunch cases and picnic backpacks for children. They come in colourful prints, with the images of cartoon characters on them.The Top Bags had recently organized a mega bag expo showcasing over 20,000 varieties ranging from Rs.100 to Rs.1,00,000. The same merchandise will be available at the store and the special bag plated with gold and studded with diamonds and precious stones will be made to order. V. Subramanian, a sales man from Nilakottai, who won the special bag after a lucky draw, says, “We came to Madurai for shopping and chanced upon visiting the expo. Instantly, we fell in love with the varieties but never expected that we would win the one lakh bag.” Subramanian and his newly wed wife S. Rajeshwari are thrilled. “It was our Thala Diwali after the wedding and it was the best gift we could have imagined,” says Rajeshwari, who now keeps the bag neatly displayed in the showcase in her house.The newly launched store also has a line of products to entice travellers. Trolleys and suitcases of different kinds and sizes, stylish rucksacks and backpacks are the options.