http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/%E2%80%98Drama-deserves-some-attention-too%E2%80%99/article13985091.ece

A few days ago, Pradeep Kumar Kavunthara won the Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Akademi award for the best playwright. It was his sixth award.He has also written a couple of scripts for films. He is more comfortable being a dramatist and has had much more success on the stage, but it is as a writer for cinema that he gets more recognition.He is not happy about it. “I am primarily a playwright and I write scripts for films because I cannot earn enough for a living from theatre,” says Pradeep. “There is neither money nor fame in drama.”The play that won him this year’s award, Kuzhiyanakal , deals with that very issue. “The drama, which is produced by Avishkara (Kollam), is about a dramatist who is forced to write a television serial,” he says. “It examines how a writer for television is constrained by commerce and other factors. The play has become a hit, and that means a lot to me, as much as the Akademi award.”Pradeep says it is frustrating to find that there is virtually no publicity for the Sangeetha Nataka Akademi awards. “Remember these are the awards given by the State Government, but look how poorly it is covered,” he says. “Forget me, since I have won several awards in the past, I have been featured in the newspapers. But what about an actress who has won her first State Award after putting in 35 years on the stage?”He says even he was once asked to give his bio-data by a journalist friend for an article on him. “If that is the situation with somebody who has won half-a-dozen State awards and is one of the busiest playwrights around, you can imagine the plight of a lesser known director or actor,” says the Kozhikode-based author.“I hope the Akademi and the media realise the efforts and sacrifices of theatre activists,” he says. “Drama should at least get a fraction of an attention that cinema and television get. We should not forget the fact that theatre has played a big role in changing the social history of Kerala.”