http://www.thehindu.com/features/cinema/%E2%80%98I%E2%80%99d-like-to-balance-mass-and-class%E2%80%99/article14016006.ece

She’s the girl of the moment, with Rajini Murugan’s success catapulting her to starry heights. But, through it all, Keerthy Suresh retains her calm. “I don’t feel any pressure, but I feel more responsible about the kind of projects I must choose in future,” she says.Daughter of actress Menaka and producer Suresh, Keerthy is familiar with tinseltown and its working. “I don’t take up too many projects at a time. I choose with care. I guess that clarity comes because my parents are from the industry,” says the actor.In the early days, Keerthy’s mother used to sit with her for narrations, but now, she’s on her own. “I do tell my parents what I’m doing, though,” she smiles.When Keerthy signed up for Rajini Murugan, she knew little about who Sivakarthikeyan was, or how popular director Ponram was post- Varuthapadatha Valibar Sangam. “When Ponram sir narrated the story, what appealed to me immediately was the father-daughter bonding. I was taken in by his visualisation of that special relationship,” she says.That aspect of the movie is one of the reasons for its popularity, and Keerthy is delighted with her choice. She's teaming up with sivakarthikeyan again for another film.The young actor, who made her debut in Tamil with Idhu Enna Maayam, is also working with director Prabhu Solomon in the Dhanush-starrer, Rail. She goes de-glam for the movie, where she plays a touch-up artiste. “I’d like a balance of class and mass films. I’ve always veered towards what we term festival films. But then, it struck me that I can make those movies at any age. I’m in the right phase now to do commercial movies, so I pick and choose projects that offer scope for performance. I don’t want to be part of movies where I just sing and dance and go away.”Keerthy is confident about her craft, and happily admits to it. “I’ve always been that way. I like to prepare for my roles well, so you can call me a method actor to an extent.”She is looking forward to roles that require her to emote, something on the lines of what Kangana Ranaut did in Queen. “That was a lovely commercial film that was also classy!”And when she’s not shooting, she’s busy hanging out with friends. “They are all my college friends, and I get to be myself with them. It helps that even when I go out, not many recognise me. When someone does, it strikes me that I’ve been given a great opportunity and that I must not squander it.”