http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/%E2%80%98Make-voting-a-fundamental-duty%E2%80%99/article14021268.ece

Lokayukta B. Subhashan Reddy has said that democracy will be complete if people are made to exercise franchise as a fundamental duty.The requirement of voting in elections should be included in the fundamental duties as enshrined in Article 51 (A) of the Constitution. At present, there are 11 fundamental duties and voting should become 12{+t}{+h}or 13th, Justice Reddy said at the National Voters’ Day celebrations here on Monday.Earlier, a large crowd comprising students and volunteers went in a procession from Ranga Reddy district Collectorate at Lakdikapul to Ravindra Bharati where a meeting was held.Addressing the gathering, Justice Reddy said the character of voting is mired in controversy in the country since the first general elections in 1952. The controversy generated over whether it should be considered as a fundamental right or a legal right accruing from the Representation of People’s Act. Initially, it was considered a legal right but a Supreme Court judgement ten years back said it was a constitutional right. More recently, the apex court rewrote the judgement to confirm it was a legal right.Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation Commissioner B. Janardhan Reddy said the celebration of National Voters Day is more appropriate for the city as it is going to pollswithin a week. He regretted that the polling percentage was generally poor among prosperous people. They did not even know which polling station to go nor the wards where they reside, he said. Chief Secretary Rajiv Sharma said voting should not only be a right but duty.Chief Electoral Officer Bhanwarlal also spoke on the occasion.People who worked for best electoral practices and winners of literary competitions held in colleges were presented awards. Medak Collector Ronald Ross was among the awardees for cent per cent linkage of voter lists with Aadhar during his previous assignment in Nizamabad.