http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/%E2%80%98Occupy-UGC%E2%80%99-campaign-intensifies/article14000191.ece

With the “Occupy UGC” protest entering its 86{+t}{+h}day on Thursday, students protesting against the University Grants Commission's decision to scrap non-NET fellowships have intensified their campaign.The students are now sending bulk messages to the HRD Ministry through postcards. A campaign called the “postcard campaign” was launched by a group of students from Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) on Wednesday. The campaign gathered pace on Thursday with students from other universities also joining in.“It has been close to three months of the ongoing “Occupy UGC” campaign and uncertainty over the status of non-NET fellowships still looms large. Since, no sincere attempt has been witnessed on part of either the UGC or the MHRD in engaging the students. We have started the postcard campaign with an aim to communicate students' concerns to the HRD Minister directly,” said Ashutosh Kumar, one of the protesters.“On the first day itself, the campaign saw a tremendous response. It is a nationwide campaign and we will try to spread it to as many states as possible. On Thursday, Delhi University students signed nearly 300 postcards. The campaign will be intensified in the coming few days,” he added. “Any society, any country progresses with the progress in mental standards, which is only possible through a sound education”, wrote one student of JNU on his postcard. A research scholar from Delhi University wrote “I need fellowship because my parents cannot support my research now. I have crossed 25 years of age and I need funding for my further studies.”UGC had resolved to discontinue the scheme of non-National Eligibility Test (NET) fellowship, which is provided to those undertaking research in central universities across India, in a meeting held on October 7 last year, citing shortage of resources.But following protests by students, the Ministry of Human Resources and Development (HRD) had last week appointed a five-member panel to review the research grants offered by UGC. The Ministry has also asked UCG to continue all existing grants.Students are now sending bulk messages to the HRD Ministry through postcards