http://www.thehindu.com/sport/other-sports/%E2%80%98Professional-domestic-league-is-a-must%E2%80%99/article13994190.ece

Vishesh Bhriguvanshi, the captain of men’s basketball team, has been a pillar of strength for the Indian team since his transition from the junior level in 2008. He played a stellar role in India’s triumph over China in the FIBA Asian 2014 championship.He had an exclusive chat with The Hindu on the sidelines of the National senior basketball championships at Mysuru on Sunday, where he is representing Uttarakhand. He talked about the need for a domestic professional basketball league which in turn will give a boost to the players and help them improve their overall game.Excerpts:Will a domestic professional basketball league take India to a higher level in the Asian & World basketball?A domestic professional basketball league is a must. We need to introduce it so that the players are benefited by playing against better overseas players and get the needed exposure. The Indian players have the skills, but they need to play against players from different countries in different conditions and improve on their game. It will help India’s cause and enable them to climb greater heights.How you were introduced to this sport?We had a basketball court in front of my house in Varanasi. My elder brother used to play the game and I used to watch him play when I was in college. I started playing seriously in 2003 and the rest is history.India did well in the 2014 FIBA Asia championships. Do you think India’s rating improved after its performance in that championship?We won against China and that was a great win. That particular match proved that there was a lot of talent in Indian basketball. We played well against Iran, Jordan and the Philippines and all were closely contested games. We gained exposure playing against these countries which ultimately had a bearing on our overall game.What will be the next goal for Bhriguvanshi and India?After the National championships here, there will be an Indian camp for the preparation of SAF Games. I personally believe a professional domestic league will help Indian basketball.Your take on the need for improvement of the game at the grassroot levelBasic skills should be taught by qualified coaches to the beginners at the grassroot level so that they do not find it difficult when they graduate to a higher level. More exposure is needed and there is a need for former players who have played the game to come and serve the game by coaching at the grassroot level so that the game improves at a faster rate.