http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/%E2%80%98Need-pollution-emergency-plan%E2%80%99/article14016864.ece

: The Capital needs an pollution emergency response plan that tells authorities when to launch car-rationing schemes or shut down industrial units, say experts.The Delhi government’s odd-even programme from January 1 to 15 may have been prompted by harsh observations on the city’s air quality by the courts, but environmentalists say there is a need for a scientific action plan.“With a delayed winter this year, the air quality will get worse in the coming weeks. The government needs to come up with a criteria for launching the odd-even policy. We have seen the pilot project, but now what will be the conditions under which it is implemented again,” asked Anumita Roychowdhury, the head of the Centre for Science and Environment’s (CSE) clean air campaign.For instance, in Beijing a red alert is issued if pollution levels go beyond a certain level and schools are closed, industries shut and odd-even rationing implemented.Reacting to reports that round two of the odd-even plan will be implemented in March, Ms. Roychowdhury cautioned that the roll-out cannot be arbitrary. “The government needs a clear idea of when to go in for emergency measures,” she said.The CSE’s analysis of air quality data from the days after the odd-even initiative ended, found that the gains of the 15-day period when private cars on the roads were reduced had been lost. The gains were lost after the traffic resumed on the first Monday after the scheme ended. Lower wind speed this week aggravated the situation. This Monday saw the levels of PM2.5 rise by 57 per cent within the day, said the CSE in a statement.Meanwhile, Sunil Dahiya, a campaigner with Greenpeace India, said that the government needed to keep up the pressure throughout the year.“By taking steps regularly throughout the year, the public acceptance of strict measures will increase. We hope that by next winter, we have a robust and strict plan like in Beijing,” said Mr. Dahiya.