http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/%E2%80%98Odd-even-was-a-political-gamble%E2%80%99/article13979404.ece

Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday that going ahead with the car-rationing scheme was a political gamble as it could have had an adverse impact on the Aam Aadmi Party’s vote bank.However, Mr. Kejriwal asserted that people have appreciated the initiative and co-operated with its implementation because tackling pollution is a big challenge.“When the government was thinking about it in November, apprehensions were raised that Delhi’s public will be inconvenienced if the scheme is rolled out, leading to disappointment. This disappointment would then reflect in the 2017 municipal polls,” the Chief Minister said at the book launch of AAP leader Dilip Pandey.“But the scheme was important as there was an urgent need to address both traffic and pollution problems. I am very glad that people have taken it well.”Pointing out the difference between the AAP and other political parties, he said the AAP doesn’t view people as mere voters. “If we were only bothered about the vote bank and focused only on conventional politics, we would not have been able to implement the car-rationing scheme.”With countries like Italy mulling over implementing a similar formula, Mr. Kejriwal said the plan’s success has boosted their confidence. Taking a jibe at the Centre and the Delhi Lieutenant-Governor, he added: “With public support, our government can overcome all challenges and it is bigger than the L-G and the Centre.”Mr. Kejriwal said his government’s plan was to ensure that the scheme is not reduced to a mere slogan. Though Opposition parties and critics have called a populist move, he said a lot of advance planning went into making the scheme a success. “We didn’t come up with such a plan to gain political mileage. Also, odd-even is not just another slogan for a pollution-free Delhi. People are appreciating the way the government has implemented it.”Explaining the idea behind the plan, he said there were two ways of implementing the formula. “We could have announced the rule and impounded every vehicle violating it or make the public aware and take them along.”