http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/%E2%80%98My-script-is-my-star%E2%80%99/article14012146.ece

Before “Rock On!!” swept me away, I didn’t have great expectations from Abhishek Kapoor. After all he was a failed actor who delivered a dud like “Uff! Yeh Mohabbat”. Even as a director he was known for the cocky “Aryan” at that time. Tagged as Unbreakable, ironically, none of his punches connected at the box office. After “Rock On!!” when he announced “Kai Po Che” , I thought he is biting bigger than he can chew. How can a director who has just made a film on a rock band dealing with anxieties of the urban youth engage with something as rooted as Gujarat? “Kai Po Che” turned out to be better than the Chetan Bhagat novel it was based on. Now Abhishek is coming up with “Fitoor”, an adaptation of Charles Dickens’ “Great Expectations” and once again my fingers are crossed.“The idea is not to repeat myself and create a new world. I have never dealt with a love story or a story about love. I read this book many times and it always left a memorable impact. I felt I could do something to the story and add some value,” says Abhishek as the conversation warms up on a cold Delhi afternoon. Add value to a classic? “I thought I can bring some more understanding to these people who all are victims of love. What happens when you break someone’s heart? I wanted to explore when you are heartbroken and have bitterness then what happens to the people around you. Do you pass it on? When you have some fear, you pass it on to your children. Perhaps, this is what happened with Miss Havisham. She passes on her fear to her adopted child. She brings her up like a heart-breaker. Why do people become what they are? There was a lot in the story that I can sink my teeth into and I felt Indian audience will love the story.”So Miss Havisham becomes Begum Hazrat and Estella is called Firdaus and Pip answers as Noor in “Fitoor”. “The original talked about class differences and aspirations and these two things continue to be relevant in the Indian context. Class and caste are ingrained in the Indian DNA,” he avers. “Fitoor” is set in Kashmir but Abhishek underlines that the film doesn’t make a political statement. “I haven’t addressed the political milieu of Kashmir. I think a lot of directors are already doing that. India is an extremely complex country. You cannot make a passing comment. If I have to address the political issue I will make a documentary on Kashmir and put across all the points of view.”He picked Kashmir for its beauty is both ethereal and real at the same time and it resonates with the subject. “As a child I saw love stories shot in Kashmir and they left a mark on me. For years people didn’t go to shoot in Kashmir and chose Manali and Switzerland instead. It didn’t have the same impact. Like the many moods of love, the Chinar trees, found only in the Valley, change colours. It is as enchanting as the women in the movie. That’s why the two female characters have red hair in the film,” Abhishek elaborates.As we move to the text between the lines, the director says nobody opens up about who he or she is. “People wear masks on a daily basis but once you love somebody you let that person enter into a very vulnerable space. Such a person can either take you to great heights or can destroy you completely. You just have to imagine how the person thinks through his actions and words.” Perhaps that is why Katrina Kaif is the best choice to play an incarnation of Estella. Abhishek’s face lights up. “Exactly! Looking at her face you can’t guess what she is thinking in her heart.”It seems like a second coming for Katrina, known more for her teenaged fan following till date. “She has got a lot of flak in her career. She has done something special here. I have never seen her like that. There is sincerity and honesty in her performance here. Perhaps for the first time she is playing a complex character. I hope people recognise that. She is already an accepted star but I think the time has come for her where she has to conquer new frontiers and she should be encouraged for that.”Abhishek’s choice of actors has baffled many. Be it Arjun Rampal in “Rock On!!” or Sushant Singh Rajput in “Kai Po Che”, he has made these actors punch above their weight. Unlike his contemporaries, who have moved on to starry circles, Abhishek is still sticking to lesser mortals. Being the nephew of Jitendra, he knows how the industry works. He once told me unlike the 50s and 60s, the biggest stars are not available for the best directors. “Actors are available but stars have different agendas. They work for their brand names. I go with people who I think fit into my story. I am the slave of my script.” But when the canvas gets bigger, the stars have to come in and “Fitoor” has that flavour. Still it is Aditya Roy Kapoor whom Abhishek is banking on to portray the Kashmiri artist in love. “It is a big film,” admits Abhishek before justifying his choice. “Aditya has an inherent innocence. I am a director who likes to bring in an actor who is not conventionally suited for a role. The whole process of discovery makes the viewing experience richer. You have to venture into newer areas to come out with something new and fresh.”True, but can we discount the fact that he is the brother of producer Siddharth Roy Kapoor. “It has nothing to do with that,” maintains Abhishek. “He was signed when Ronnie Screwvala was still part of UTV. It was he who gave me the green signal. They backed me when Excel Entertainment said no to Kai Po Che. After ‘Rock On!!’ they wanted to bring in a star but I wanted to be true to the script and UTV went with my vision.”The real casting coup is Tabu as Miss Havisham. She stepped in when Rekha walked out of the project. “It was very generous and trusting of me when she agreed to come on board in a matter of three days. Some actors will take months to prepare for such a schizophrenic character. She trusted me, held my hand and we walked through the complex narrative.” Is he turning her into the Dickensian ‘skeleton with moving eyes’? “It is not just about the look because the character is so complex that you can’t limit it to her physicality. There should be more understanding of her bitterness. I am looking at the story from her side as well. I wanted to know what happened to her. Why she went mad. When you know why this person went mad then you no longer call her mad you consider her as ill.” Abhishek recounts how Tabu doesn’t look at the monitor. “She would look at me and say, ‘tell me’…and would wait for the feedback. She is blind in a way and only hears the director’s point of view.” Abhishek is tight-lipped about the presence of Ajay Devgn in a cameo as the real benefactor of Noor.The novel has been made into film so many times that there is going to be comparisons. “You can compare it with other cinematic versions of “Great Expectations” but keep in mind that it is made for Indian audience. It is very difficult to make a mainstream commercial film in this country and to make it resonate in the international arena. The gap between the aesthetics of the two audiences is too vast. I don’t think it is easy to sail in a boat that can touch both the destinations. When I am talking to you I should focus on you. If others in the room could hear it and make sense it is fine but I know my target.” Indeed!Writing it rightThe Bombay High Court recently ruled in favour of Abhishek Kapoor in a case he had filed demanding joint credit with Pubali Chaudhuri for sharing the writing credit on “Rock On 2”. The case brought out a long standing problem in the film industry where the rights of writers are not respected by producers. “It strengthened my belief in the judicial system. I don’t have a good experience with the writers’ associations in film business. They have coteries. To know that you can always go to court of law and that you can’t be abused is very reassuring.” Abhishek says he wrote it to direct it. “I was told that the contract says Excel Entertainment (the producer) can bring somebody else as director. I agreed but said my name should be there as a writer. It was not acceptable to me. It is my child. You can take my child away but you can’t remove my name from it.” It is being said the film is based in the North East. “I set it in hill station around a music festival. The festivals have become big now, I wrote it two years back.”