http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/%E2%80%98Only-a-few-takers-for-woman-centric-films%E2%80%99/article13996224.ece

In arts and cinema, the importance of women is very much defined by the mindset of none, but women artistes and women viewers, felt some eminent personalities.Popular film writer K. Vijayendra Prasad, who penned stories for Baahubali and Bajrangi Bhaijaan , shared an interesting incident to a group of girl students.“I narrated a script to actress Tamannah. She heard and rejected it. I asked her whether it was the role or the story that she did not like. She said she liked both, but the problem was that the movie had a woman-oriented role. She felt no big actor would work with her later if she goes ahead with the movie.” When asked by some students about the existing disparity in the onscreen treatment of male and female artistes in the Telugu movie industry, Mr. Prasad conveyed that there was a problem with the artistes too, but not before placing the blame on the female audience. “Can you tell me how many of you would go and watch a woman-centric movie? The fact is such movies do not do well as everyone wants to watch male actors on screen. The day all of you make an effort to flock theatres to appreciate female movies, then we can see equality in the industry.”Along with Mr. Prasad, Kuchipudi dancer Yamini Reddy, script writer Prathima Jayadev and filmmaker Aparna Malladi fielded questions and shared their experiences as part of a panel discussion on “Gender in Profession - Creating Inclusive Work Space”.The event was organised by Centre for Women Studies, St. Ann’s College on Monday.Aparna Malladi spoke about her experiment to bring in women on the sets. “There are very few women working on film sets and this was like a barrier. So, when I directed a movie my producer was a woman and we decided that 50 per cent of the crew should be women. But, the kind of creativity they brought in was mind-blowing and the men were well-behaved. There was more harmony on the sets.”Based on a few incidents, Ms. Malladi felt that men who love and respect women are the future feminists and their support should be sought to fight for equality.Prathima Jayadev told students, who were interested in taking up movie making to first understand the process and then convince their parents before taking the plunge. She shared how time and again she had to stick to her passion even with some resistance from her family members. Commenting on violence and injustice, Yamini Reddy said women are more responsible in bringing about a change in society.The day people flock theatres to appreciateheroine-oriented movies, then we can see equality in the industry, says film writer Vijayendra Prasad