http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/%E2%80%98Educated-class-can-help-bring-qualitative-change-in-politics-if-it-votes%E2%80%99/article14020378.ece

Deputy Commissioner Vipul Bansal has said that the participation of the educated people and professionals in electoral politics would usher in qualitative change in politics and ensure that all sections of people were involved in the democratic process.Speaking at a National Voters Day programme, commemorating the foundation day of the Election Commission of India, here on Monday, Mr. Bansal said that the non-participation of the educated class and professionals in the electoral politics has left a wide gap in participatory politics and this gap needs to be filled now.He said that the participation of the educated class and professionals would enable not only them but also society to make their dreams of a developed India a reality. “The best human resources should come forward to contest in the elections for the betterment of the country and to strengthen democracy,” he said.Stressing the need for universal voting in the elections, Mr. Bansal said that while the people evinced keen interest in exercising their franchise in the local body elections, they were indifferent when it came to the Assembly and Lok Sabha elections.“Everybody should consider casting their franchise their primary duty, as a single vote can decide the future of the country,” he said. The youths, particularly the new voters, should at least should not ape the indifferent attitude of their elders towards elections but compulsorily exercise their franchise, he added.Superintendent of Police Amit Singh, who inaugurated the programme, said that it was unfortunate that many still failed to exercise their votes. He added that no single vote should go waste. “The new voters who would be getting their voter identity cards should know that the voting right is a special privilege given to them and they should not miss this,” he said.Chief Executive Officer Anirud Sravan spoke. Additional Deputy Commissioner Govind Reddy proposed a vote of thanks. The Deputy Commissioner handed over voter identity cards to new voters who had enrolled their names after attaining the age of 18. The new voters also took out a procession in the city to commemorate the day.