http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/%E2%80%98Complete-projects-on-time%E2%80%99/article13991136.ece

Leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha M. Mallikarjun Kharge has asked officials of government departments to complete ongoing projects within stipulated time.Chairing a vigilance committee meeting to review the progress of Centrally assisted works in Yadgir district on Saturday, he asked Deputy Commissioner Manoj Jain and Chief Executive Officer of the Yadgir Zilla Panchayat Vikas Suralkar to ensure that the grants released for the agriculture sector, drinking water projects, construction of roads and other public utilities were used properly.Mr. Kharge told Railway officials to complete the work on the proposed railway coach factory at Badiyal-Kadechur villages in the district by July-end. He directed the officials to ensure that the factory had electricity and water connection.Mr. Kharge said that officials of the National Highways Authority of India should complete the work on filling potholes and other works on the stretch of the road connecting Kalaburagi and Raichur via Chittapur, Yargol, Yadgir, Kadechur by March-end. The construction of NH 150 passing through this stretch would be taken up at the cost of Rs. 609 crore at the earliest, the officials said.Mr. Kharge directed the officials to get approval for the newly sanctioned national highways connecting Solapur and Bengaluru; Jewargi and Chamarajanagar; and Vijayapura and Hyderabad.Officials of the Lead Bank were told to extend advance loan facilities to skilled youth in a bid to encourage small-scale industries.He told Mr. Suralkar to use the grants released under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Act properly and offer jobs to unskilled people from rural areas to prevent migration.Fodder stockMr. Kharge told officials of the Animal Husbandry Department to ensure that there was enough stock of fodder. The officials said that 4.52 tonnes fodder had been stocked and 14,900 mini-kits had been distributed in July, August and September. They also added that free health check-up camps would be held for animals.