http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/%E2%80%98Communication-skills-must-for-techies%E2%80%99/article14004683.ece

Many IT companies are looking at Srikakulam for their recruitment process as they observed that the candidates of backward region would give top priority for loyalty to the companies which give them ‘first chance’ in their career.Normally, IT companies face attrition as majority of the candidates of big cities give importance for their career prospectus. Their communication skills have become an added advantage for the students of cities but it hampers the work of companies. That is why many IT companies are looking at districts like Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram for their recruitment process although many students are not up to the mark as far communication skills are concerned. The software industries understood that the students of the backward areas are good at subject although they have not been able to communicate freely in English. The communication skills are necessary for the students and they have to talk to the clients who stay in US, Europe and other countries.RequirementsThe companies asked top engineering colleges of Srikakulam to concentrate on communication skills of the students from the first year itself. Tata Consultancy Services, My Edu Guru and other companies interacted recently with the students of Aditya Institute of Technology and Management (AITAM) during ‘Career Arena’ programme and explained the requirements of software companies.“After joining the companies, the candidates will have to constantly interact with the clients. So, they have to understand their accent and requirements. Then only, they can meet the expectations of the companies. The colleges can bridge the gap between students and companies by focusing on communication skills from first year itself. It immensely helps students in future,” said A. Subramanyam, senior consultant, TCS.AITAM director V.V. Nageswara Rao said that the World Bank was also suggesting the selected colleges to focus on companies’ requirements by providing financial assistance under Technical Education Quality Improvement Programme. “It is a hard fact that only six per cent of the engineering students are able to meet all the requirements of the companies. That is why we are organising special training programmes for the students by roping in the services of experts from Chennai, Mumbai and other places,” he added.My Edu Guru CEO M. Meghana said that the students of rural background can also beat candidates of metro cities when they had commitment and follow the guidelines of the college managements.