http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/%E2%80%9CNo-settler-here-even-I%E2%80%99m-from-outside%E2%80%9D/article13996937.ece

Panchayat Raj Minister K.T. Rama Rao made it clear that the city’s population does not lend itself for clustering into “settlers” and “non-settlers”, as most residents here are migrants from other places.“Even I am not from here. I migrated from Siddipet. In fact, even America is a country of immigrants,” he said, at the ‘Meet the Press’ event organised by the Telangana State Union of Working Journalists here on Tuesday.“It is true that we had given slogans like ‘Jaago, Bhaago’, and we are not apologetic about it now. Such were the passions then, when leaders from Andhra tried to hinder Telangana State. Today the passions are not there. We have to take everyone along. This is the government, even for those who didn’t vote for us,” Mr. Rao elaborated, responding to a statement that local people are angry with government’s efforts to please “settlers”.The event was marked by quite a few shifts on the same lines, with the minister non-committal about the selection of contestants, or Telangana quota in IT jobs. Replying to a question about the party’s choice between TRS loyalists and defectors, Mr.Rao said connect with the people would be the sole criterion.“In politics, it makes sense to choose candidates who command people’s respect and trust and who have the opportunity to offer great service to the people. Many have joined the party during the last 15 years. Some may have joined in the early stages, some recently. But if we are to run Hyderabad, we have to win,” Mr.Rao said, hurrying to assure that TRS enjoyed an advantage over other parties, whereby party loyalists could be accommodated in nominated posts. On Telangana quota in IT jobs, he said the government is aiming towards creation of more jobs rather than getting local quota.“IT sector requires skilled and semi-skilled people, and recruitments will be irrespective of the region. No city in the world offers quota for local people in IT or private sector,” he remarked. Telangana government has initiated two programmes, for training the job seekers (TASK), and for entrepreneurship development (T-HUB). Success of even a tenth of T-Hub enterprises would create thousands of jobs, thus addressing the unemployment problem, he averred.“Instead claiming three out of four jobs, we should aim at making the four forty, and take thirty thereof. With blinkered thinking, we could be risking the existing jobs too,” Mr.Rao said, even while asserting that Hyderabad has recorded three percent higher growth in IT sector than the country’s average during the last year.He repeatedly urged for a chance to the TRS, as all other parties have had their respective stints, and failed to deliver. The party has been winning all elections only owing to the Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s performance, he stressed, and called opposition parties’ criticism as their preparation for defeat.