http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Madurai/%E2%80%9CSustainable-development-key-for-growth-of-universities%E2%80%9D/article14006686.ece

Sense of belonging among teachers and quality education will help universities grow and develop, according to University Grants Commission Vice-Chairman H. Devaraj.Inaugurating a community college and new hostel building at Gandhigram Rural Institute (GRI) here on Monday, he said that sustainable development was the key for growth of universities.Endurance and perseverance were two factors important to achieve sustainable development.Universities should have the vision for the next 25 or 50 years. Students and teachers should also have a similar vision.Development and endeavour should go hand in hand. Success was a continuous journey and not a destination, he added.Despite rapid development of institutions of higher education, quality of education was not ensured. Degree certificates issued by the universities should have value. “We have diluted the quality of degree certificates. They do not have any value. Without value, there is no use in issuing degree certificates. Value-based education is necessary,” he added.Mr. Devaraj also expressed his concerns over missing originality in research papers. Universities should be useful to the community and accountable to people. The UGC had started asking universities about their contribution to the communities. Change in the mindset of parents was necessary to help students take up various courses besides popular professional courses, he noted.Ruled out formulation of uniform policies for all universities, he said that requirements of universities differed from one region to another.In his special address, GRI Vice-Chancellor S. Natarajan said that the quality and the quantity of skill development institutions did not keep pace with the demand of labour force and industrial needs.At present, only 2.5 per cent of the workforce had vocational training, which was 75 per cent in Germany, 70 per cent in North America, 80 per cent in Japan and 50 per cent in China.It was high time for higher educational institutions to incorporate the requirements of various industries in their curriculum in an innovative and flexible manner, Mr. Natarajan added.