http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/%E2%80%9CCome-up-with-innovative-ideas-we%E2%80%99ll-support-them%E2%80%9D/article14013351.ece

Scientific Advisor to Defence Minister, G. Satheesh Reddy, called upon the students to come up with innovative ideas which would be supported by the Government of India.“We are here to support innovative ideas. Sufficient funds will also be allocated for the purpose soon by the Defence Ministry. Industry and academia should join hands in innovation and bring out new products,” said Dr. Satheesh Reddy while addressing the students of GITAM University on the occasion of 6th convocation held on Hyderabad campus here on Thursday.“Whenever we accomplish something, we claim that we are fourth or fifth in achieving it. But when we will be in a position to claim that we are number one? For that, we have to innovate and produce indigenously which will propel economic development of the nation,” said Dr. Satheesh Reddy, adding that there was a need to improve standards in educational institutions where students from abroad come and study. He said while China was able to make good progress, India failed to do so as it has failed to invest in establishing institutions that can improve knowledge and skills.Stating that 81 per cent of the Akash component requirements were met by the industries located in and around Hyderabad, he said BDL got an order for Rs. 20,000 crore from defence wings and they succeeded in seven out of nine missions of Ballistic Missile Defence (BMD) systems.Recalling the problems faced by the nation in 1980s when it tried to produce defence products like missiles, he said now India has developed fifth generation Agni Missile which can hit a target at 5,000 km distance. “We have the capability and have demonstrated it in a few sectors. But we are unable to do that in all the sections. Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched ‘Make in India’ where we innovate and produce. For that, even ‘Start-up India’ was started. Manufacture innovative products and think about the world market,” he said.Honorary Degree in Science was presented to Mr. Satheesh Reddy by the Chancellor, K. Ramakrishna Rao.Prof. Ramakrishna Rao said they wanted to transform the university from smart to super. Degrees were presented to students who completed their education.