http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/%E2%80%9CLeaked%E2%80%9D-video-shows-Chhattisgarh-congress-chief-offering-post-to-whistleblower/article13994158.ece

Another “leaked” video surfaced in Chhattisgarh on Monday which showed State Congress president Bhupesh Baghel allegedly offering a position in the party to “whistleblower” Firoz Siddiqui.Though the video is unclear, Mr. Baghel could clearly be heard asking Mr. Siddiqui to reach the office of an English newspaper on “16th”.“The deal is fixed with the English newspaper and now the national media will break the story. If there is an attack on you, we should have things in our hands. To protect you, I will make you general secretary [of Congress] if the CM does anything,” the State Congress chief could be heard telling Mr. Siddqui.In response, Mr. Siddiqui could be heard requesting Mr. Baghel to make him a Congress party office bearer.“Not now. I will make you [party general secretary] if they arrest you. If I make you [party secretary] now, it would appear as if you did it [leaked tapes] to get the party post,” Mr. Baghel could be heard telling Mr. Siddiqui.The State Congress chief also talks of a “deal” and about “expulsion” of someone from the party and “using national media as a shield in case the government targets”.“I will protect you like a shield,” Mr.Baghel could be heard assuring Mr. Siddiqui.Mr. Siddqui did not respond to calls from The Hindu to confirm if it was his voice in the video.Reacting on behalf of Mr. Baghel, his close associate and Congress spokesperson Shailesh Nitin Trivedi said, “What is objectionable in the video? If he is talking of making someone general secretary, then I don’t think there is any objectionable in that. There is no talk of money changing hands and deals. Has Mr. Baghel said anything like that? There is no question of denying or accepting it. I have read the transcripts (of the conversation) and there is nothing objectionable in it. If someone can be protected by making him a general secretary of the party then we will definitely do it. We believe in saving lives and not taking lives.”The purported conversation, if true, shows that Mr. Baghel, along with Mr. Siddiqui, leaked the audio of conversations allegedly to fix a by-poll last year to an English newspaper in New Delhi.The newspaper “expose” was then used by Mr. Baghel to expel former Chief Minister Ajit Jogi’s son and Congress MLA, Amit Jogi, from the Congress for six years.The alleged leaked tapes of conversations among Mr. Ajit Jogi, Mr. Amit Jogi, his “associates”, and Puneet Gupta (son-in-law of Chief Minister Raman Singh) to “fix” a by-election last year kicked up a political storm in Chhattisgarh and in Delhi.An English newspaper from New Delhi published transcripts of their telephonic conversations with the Congress candidate for the Antagad by-election last year, Manturam Pawar.The ruling BJP had a cakewalk after Mr. Pawar’s last-minute withdrawal.